Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Journal of Energy Storage
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/est

Research papers

An enhanced energy management system for coordinated energy storage
and exchange in grid-connected photovoltaic-based community microgrids
Esam H. Abdelhameed a, * , Samah Abdelraheem b, c , Yehia Sayed Mohamed c ,
Mohammed Abouheaf d , Samy A. Marey e , Ahmed A. Zaki Diab c
a

Faculty of Energy Engineering, Aswan University, P.O. Box 81528, Aswan, Egypt
Modern University for Technology and Information, Cairo, Egypt
Faculty of Engineering, Minia University, Minia, Egypt
d
School of Engineering, Bowling Green State University, Bowling Green, OH 43403, USA
e
Deanship of Scientific Research, King Saud University, P.O. Box 2460, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia
b
c

A R T I C L E I N F O

A B S T R A C T

Keywords:
Community energy management system
Load scheduling
Energy sharing
Renewable energy resource
Peer-to-peer energy trading
Seagull optimization algorithm

This paper introduces an enhanced coordinated community energy management system (CEMS) for a community
microgrid. It is designed to optimize residential energy consumption and facilitate energy sharing among smart
homes. The proposed solution integrates constrained mixed-integer programming (CMIP) approach along with
advanced optimization technique and cooperative game theory-based pricing mechanism to address critical
challenges in existing energy management strategies, including load scheduling and efficient peer-to-peer energy
trading. The CEMS approach is adopted for grid-connected community power systems that incorporate local
energy sources such as photovoltaic and battery storage systems. This solution is implemented under a time-ofuse dynamic pricing model for energy transfer from the main grid to the community peers, a modified midmarket pricing mechanism for the P2P energy exchange, and feed-in tariff for energy transfer from the community peers to the main grid. Besides, seagull optimization algorithm is applied to relax the CMIP problem to
get the optimal rational solution of the scheduling problem which is subjected to a rounding process to obtain the
best feasible solution. The obtained results indicate a substantial reduction in electricity costs, achieving daily
savings of 72.21 % and reducing grid dependency by 41.95 %. Moreover, 82.2 % of the community's energy
demand was met through locally generated resources with 18.39 % enhancement of the overall CMG selfconsumption ratio comparing to the reference operating scenario. Ultimately, the study demonstrates the
effectiveness of the management system in improving load profiles, maximizing the use of local renewable energy sources, and reducing electricity expenses, thereby providing a sustainable and economically viable model
for future smart grids.

1. Introduction
Energy transition refers to the shift of the energy sector towards
renewable and low-carbon energy sources like solar and wind systems,
accompanied by energy storage systems. Given the numerous challenges
hindering the acceleration of this transition, it is imperative to address
the effective integration of such diverse energy generation systems.
Community Microgrids (CMGs), innovative small-scale local energy
networks, hold promise as a solution for advancing the transition to
clean energy. CMGs can operate independently or be connected to the
main grid, enabling local communities, villages, towns, and cities, to

effectively satisfy their energy needs locally by generating, storing, and
distributing energy among themselves. These microgrids promote local
energy sharing, supporting community resilience, sustainability, and
self-reliance by harnessing local resources and embracing renewable
energy. Furthermore, constructing CMGs offers a multitude of benefits,
including energy independence, increased adoption of renewable energy, cost savings, enhanced energy efficiency, local economic development, community engagement and collaboration, as well as
environmental and social benefits [1]. These advantages are attainable
through the implementation of smart technologies and the integration of
renewable energy sources (RESs) into CMGs. Moreover, these microgrids play a pivotal role in reducing dependency on the main grid,

* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: ehhameed@energy.aswu.edu.eg (E.H. Abdelhameed).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.113311
Received 26 April 2024; Received in revised form 18 July 2024; Accepted 9 August 2024
Available online 19 August 2024
2352-152X/© 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

Nomenclature

buy,G

Eh,t

Abbreviations and acronyms
SHs
Smart Homes
PV
Photovoltaic
ToU
Time-of-Use electricity pricing
CMGs
Community Microgrids
CEMS
Community Energy Management System
HEMS
Home Energy Management System
SOA
Seagull Optimization Algorithm
RESs
Renewable Energy Sources
SOC
State-of-Charge
CMIP
Constrained Mixed-Integer Problem
LP
Linear Programing
BESS
Energy Storage System
EVs
Electric Vehicles
Symbols
R TOU
R FiT

μ
R P2P
r
S(t)
J(vi )
Nmax
Δt
Esg (t)
Ed (t)
Esc (t)
ΔE(t)
Esur (t)
Edef (t)
Spro
Srec
Ch (t)

buy,P

Eh,t

Esell,G
h,t
Esell,P
h,t
R G2P
h,t
buy,P2P

R h,t

R P2G
h,t
R sell,P2P
h,t

Tariff rate offered by the main grid (buying price)
Tariff rate offered by the main grid (selling price)
A realistic trading mechanism factor
The electricity price for P2P trading
The supply–demand ratio
ON-OFF state function of SH's loads
The objective function of the scheduling problem
The maximum number of delayed time periods
The sampling period
The total self-generated energy of each prosumer at time
interval t
The energy demand for each peer at time interval t
The required energy form the self-generated energy of each
prosumer to meet his demand
The energy difference between his own generated energy
and his load demand
The surplus energy of each peer
The peer's unmet demand at time interval t.
The set of prosumers with excess energy
The set of all consumers and prosumers with deficit energy
The daily net cost of the energy even delivered or received
by each household

̅→
Ps (n)
A
̅→
Cs
fc
nmax
̅→
Pbs (n)
→
Ms
B
rm
→
Ds

The total energy consumed by the household h from the
grid at the time interval t

The total energy consumed by the household h from the
other households at the time interval t

The total energy delivered by the household h to the grid at
the time interval t

The total energy delivered by the household h to the other
households at the time interval t
The price of the electricity bought by the household h from
the grid
The price of the electricity bought from by the household h
other peers in the community
The price of the electricity sold by the household h to the
grid

The price of the electricity sold by the household h to other
peers in the community

The current position of a search agent
The movement behavior of the search agent in the specific
search space
The new position of a search agent
The parameter used to control the movement behavior of
search agent
The maximum number of iterations
The position of the best fit search agent.
The updated position of the search agent
The random variable administrates the balance between
the exploration and exploitation actions
The random number between 0 and 1.

The distance between the search agent and the best fit
search agent
θ
The attack angle which has a random value between 0 and
2π
rs
The radius of each turn of the motion spiral
c1 , and c2 two constants to describe the spiral shape

improve energy resilience, and let the grid to be less susceptible to
power outages [2]. On the other hand, energy sharing in CMGs embodies
a collaborative and efficient approach to power the communities. In
these innovative systems, households within a local area can directly
exchange surplus energy among themselves [2–4]. Facilitated by
advanced technologies and smart meters, excess solar, wind, or stored
energy can be seamlessly shared, empowering participants to contribute
to and benefit from a communal energy pool, known as Peer-to-Peer
(P2P) energy trading. Peer-to-Peer energy trading is becoming necessary to an increasing extent and is attracting an important share of the
centralized market for local transient energy trading [5]. Peers have the
option to obtain energy via the P2P trading platform or from the main
grid, and they can also offer surplus energy to other peers within the
microgrid. This mechanism has the ability to lower energy prices for
peers and optimize the sharing of energy between the main grid, CMG's
peers, and battery energy storage system (BESS).
Although solar power is a fast-growing source of renewable energy
worldwide, its intermittent nature results in heavy demands on the
utility grid. Furthermore, it limits the self-sufficiency of residential or
commercial buildings with solar power systems. Thus, customers in
these power networks are required to have backup electrical systems,
most of which are currently fossil fuel-powered, contradicting the use of

RESs [6]. Focusing on these important issues, this study introduces an
innovative solution: the implementation of coordinated neighborhood
power-sharing and optimal load scheduling. Besides, the neighborhood
power-sharing model adopted in this study depends on storing surplus
solar energy in a BESS, which can be shared later among residential
consumers or exported to the utility grid.
Commonly, installing a residential solar photovoltaic system along
with a battery storage system is an effective action that allows community members to reduce their dependence on the grid and increase
their savings. Grid dependence refers to the proportion of load demand
supplied by the main grid, while self-consumption denotes the proportion of load demand met by one's solar system. By reducing grid
dependence, the payment for electricity decreases; moreover, by
increasing solar self-consumption, a significant portion of one's investment pays itself back through savings in a short period. Actions such as
shifting residential loads to off-peak hours and installing a battery
storage system can lead to a reduction in grid dependence, which, in
turn, can increase self-consumption.
Generally speaking, challenges faced during transition to renewable
energy can be mainly classified into technical and economic challenges.
The technical challenges mainly comprise RESs intermittency, grid
reliability, and energy storage limitations. While the economic
2

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

customer's comfort.
On the other hand, many research works have been conducted in the
literature on power sharing between households within local microgrids. A coordinated energy management strategy was introduced in
[15] for community microgrids to reduce the electricity bill through
enhancing consumption of the local RESs by deploying an incentivebased energy pricing scheme and considering renewable energy sources and battery storage. The management system was modeled utilizing
multi-agent systems, whereas the load scheduling was done based on
genetic algorithm and rolling-horizon approach. To solve the P2P energy
trading instability that caused by the unpredictable and intermittent
feature of the distributed energy resources composed on the local power
network, the authors of [16] introduced a cooperative game theory
based energy trading scheme based on cooperative game theory. The
scheme provides different priorities at each time sample relying on
specific parameters e.g. pricing rates, coordinates, peak load, and
maximum production. Although employing the best suitable priority for
each time sample is more effective than using single priority during the
whole day, but that increasing the trading mechanism complexity A
centralized CEMS with coordinated energy-sharing model for community SHs, incorporated with RESs and BESS, was suggested in [4] targeting the electricity bill reduction for all users. To encourage the more
electricity exchange between the peers, the authors combined ToU tariff,
FiT, and fixed incentive-based scheme for determining the electricity
price. In [17], as utilization of community shared energy storage (CSES)
is a solution to mitigate effect of RESs uncertainty on the power systems
stability, the author presented a platform for CSES operators and community peers to set their optimal energy trading methodology based on
social welfare enhancement. Moreover, to minimize the computation
time, accelerate reaching the best solution, and improve the investment
expandability, the alternating direction method of multipliers approach,
which is an iterative method that divides the original management
problem into sub-problems to be solved in same time, was applied to
optimally solve the energy exchange problem. Moreover, to assess the
economic, environmental, social, and technical parameters influencing
electricity trade preferences, authors of [18] analyzed survey data from
multiple customers. Features such as environmental pollution, social
communication with electricity partners, sales price, self-sufficiency,
and efficiency improvement were identified.
Based on the aforementioned review one can conclude that, neighborhood coordination along with incentive-based energy trading and
load management allows more usage of local renewable energy and
accordingly reduces the cost of the consumed electricity.

challenges represented in the investment and market dynamics [7]. The
intermittent nature of RESs is one of the significant obstacles to the RESs
adoption. This nature can disrupt the grid reliability and necessitates the
need for efficient energy storage systems. These systems help in to balance the grid as enable the storage of electrical energy whenever it is
available while release it later to meet the demand. In addition, old
infrastructure of the grid faces a prominent challenge, as it needs not
only technological upgrades, but also modifications to be suitable for
higher RES penetration, integrating advanced management systems and
energy storage technologies to ensure stability and reliability [7]. From
the economic viewpoint, energy transition necessitates large investments, i.e. high initial capital investments, in advanced technologies
and new infrastructure. Besides evolving market dynamics impacts the
adoption of RESs and the financial strategies of investors in this field [8].
1.1. Literature review
Several studies have been reported in the literature on energy
management systems, power sharing, and energy trading within community microgrids. Almost all of these researches targeting electricity
cost reduction and fostering the consumption from the available renewables. In [9] the authors introduced a home energy management
system (HEMS) for a SH incorporated with wind turbine, PV, and EVs,
battery storage systems. The suggested HEMS was modeled using opportunity constraint programming taking into account the probability
distribution of the random variables. A modified particle swarm technique was employed to optimally solve the scheduling problem. The
designed HEMS enables the users to achieve a specific level of comfort at
the expense of financial benefits. The authors of [10] introduced a HEMS
by combining wind turbine, fuel cell vehicle and BESS. Charging/discharging of the battery system through optimal pattern and determination of its optimal capacity and rated power are the main objectives of
this study. The authors expressed the HEMS as a mixed integer nonlinear
programming (MINLP) and used a cultural optimization algorithm to
solve it considering different operating conditions of the smart home
while modeled the wind turbine output by Gaussian probability distribution function. Also in [11] HEMS was proposed by incorporating a
solar PV system, and BESS in the smart home's powering system. However in this study, the HEMS is designed to charge the BESS during the
off-peak periods whenever the energy is available while discharge during on-peak periods. The power produced by the solar system was
considered as uncertainty and modeled by probability distribution
function. Besides, different operating conditions of the home is taken
into account i.e. purchasing energy from the grid, selling energy to the
grid, and working on standalone mode. In order to show the impact of
integrating BESS into smart home's grid-connected powering system, a
scheme has been introduced in [12] to optimize the sizing of the PV
system and manage the household's consumed energy using a teachinglearning-based optimization algorithm. The main objective of this
scheme is increasing the self-consumption of PV system along with
keeping the stability of the gird via employing frequency containment
reserve service. The obtained results indicate that the battery system is a
cost-effective technology for improving self-consumption of the PV energy. In order to decrease monetary cost of grid communities, that includes different RESs and battery storage system, and its dependency on
the main grid, authors of [13] developed a home energy management
scheme with a power-sharing approach that depends on priorities of
loads' operating time. In [14] for reducing the electricity bills along with
enhancing the user comfort, a model for scheduling the residential loads
of the smart homes was implemented based on modified constraint
mixed-integer programming (CMIP) optimization. Different metaheuristic techniques were applied to provide an optimal rational solution of the problem during the relaxation process of the CMIP technique.
In addition, a stochastic rounding scheme was used to provide a goodenough feasible solution of the problem. The introduced management
system successfully reduces the electricity bill with consideration of the

1.2. Research gap and research contribution
In reviewing the existing literature on load scheduling and energy
sharing within community microgrids that composed of smart homes, it
becomes obvious that while many researches have conducted on the
energy management problem even of the distributed generation or the
load side, still one can find a remarkable gap in providing such energy
management systems that have the ability to minimize the electricity
cost within the community, optimize utilization of available generated
renewable energy, and reduce grid dependency. Addressing such problems is crucial for providing effective energy management systems that
promote the energy transition towards sustainable energy systems, help
mitigating the climate change, strengthen local economies, and enhance
the comfort of the community members.
In our study, the proposed coordinated Community Energy Management System (CEMS) in a neighborhood area has been designed to
manage the produced energy and consumption collectively and smartly
within the community, producing an advantageous situation for the
community peers and the main grid as well. The designed CEMS is
introduced to consume as much solar energy as possible on-site and to
connect the local microgrid to main grid to import the required power
when it's cheaper and more efficient to do so. In addition, reducing the
3

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

needed by the loads is imported from the utility grid. The following subsections introduce a comprehensive review on the microgrid components: Peer, aggregator, Photovoltaic Residential System, BESS, residential EVs, and the classification of the typical residential loads utilized
in the neighborhood community.

electricity bills of the consumers is another objective of this study. Besides, the feasibility of optimal load scheduling and energy sharing via
employing P2P trading to minimize costs of the consumed energy for the
consumer and to increase financial incentives for the prosumers within
the community microgrid has been tested. The main contributions of
this study include the following:

2.1. Energy peers in a community microgrid

• For community microgrids (CMGs), this paper proposes a coordinated Community Energy Management System (CEMS) aiming at
maximizing the economic benefits for the prosumers and the consumers both while targeting two goals:
- Enhancement of the energy storage and exchange among the
network peers.
- Optimally scheduling the residential loads of the community.
• Employing a doable practical Peer-to-Peer (P2P) energy trading
approach which simultaneously confirms energy demand-based best
priority and considers the PV systems, battery energy storage systems
and EVs that are incorporated to the community microgrid.
• Addressing the energy transactions among the neighborhood community peers under modified mid-market rate pricing scheme for
P2P energy trading while those between the community peers and
the utility grid are effectively addressed under dynamic pricing
scheme that is predetermined by the utility grid.
• The proposed energy management system can be used as a predicting
tool that permits energy consumption to be analyzed, energy
adjustment to be occurred and energy demand to be anticipated.
• The results demonstrate an improvement in load profiles, enhancing
in the local RESs usage, and reduction in the electricity bills due to
energy sharing within the community grid that combined with
optimal scheduling of the residential loads.
• Simultaneously addressing all possible operating conditions for all
smart homes i.e. purchasing energy from the utility grid, supplying
energy to the utility grid, sharing energy under P2P trading.

A peer can be described as a user within the community who has the
ability to trade electrical energy directly with other users within the
local power network. A peer may represent a consumer or prosumer in a
community sharing system, i.e. the distribution local network; those
users form the basis for energy sharing. The prosumers can manage their
consumption, production and/or energy storage, while the consumers
behave passively regarding the energy consumption. Based on the difference between the energy produced by the local resources and
household load demand, a prosumer should first fulfill his needs from
energy consumption then he can share the excess energy with other
peers within the CMG. From the viewpoint of energy trading, in case of
the network peers able to share a portion of their own generation with
each other, the local power network may be referred as a P2P network
[19].
For the understudy CMG, the PV and BESSs may not be available for
all community's SHs. For modeling the system, a small CMG architecture
involving three SHs has been considered as depicted in Fig. 1, which
represents a fundamental infrastructure for energy and information flow
that CEMS utilizes to accomplish its objectives.
In this model the 1st and 2nd SHs are equipped with rooftop solar
PVs whereas the 2nd SH also includes a battery storage system. However, the 3rd SH lacks both a solar power system and a storage system.
Accordingly the 1st and 2nd SHs are considered prosumers. A prosumer
can utilize the energy generated from his resources, resources of other
peers in the local network, or from the main grid to meet his own demand. Moreover, a prosumer can export his surplus generated energy to
other members within the community or to the main grid i.e. the
generated solar energy that is not used straight away by the community
members or stored in a battery system is exported to the main grid. For
that purpose, each prosumer should be enabled with a smart meter used
for measuring and storing data of the power generated from his own
resources, consumed energy, and the energy that is exported or imported from any other peers or from the main grid.

1.3. Article organization
This paper is organized as follows: Section 2 discusses the problem
description and presents a small microgrid community and the system
parameters. Section 3 illustrates PV sharing and peer-to-peer energy
trading, Objective function, and the coordinated game theory-based
model, and optimal energy sharing and load scheduling methodology.
The obtained results and discussion are given in Section 4. Finally,
Section 5 depicts the conclusion and suggests future research.

2.2. Aggregator

2. Community microgrid architecture

Basically, demand response is a methodology used to balance the
power networks via reducing or shifting the electricity consumption
during the high demand or supply constraints hours. Implementation of
conventional demand response process needs a lot of facilities and
complex procedures to manage the energy usage. Whereas, leveraging
advanced technologies allowed energy aggregators (coordinators)
participate in demand response programs, leading to facilitate the demand response process significantly, reduce costs, and enhance grid
stability. The CMG operates as a centralized energy market; accordingly,
an energy aggregator should be utilized to communicate the peers or
entities engaged in P2P energy trading. The aggregator collaborates
with the community participants to manage their energy consumption
collectively via managing peers' loads operating status. The aggregator
has ability to access all households' information through secure
advanced metering infrastructure networks. The smart meters and CEMS
send end-users' information about their electricity usage and preferences
to the aggregator. Depending on the information collected from the
peers, the CEMS via the aggregator determines the amount of energy
that is provided from or delivered to a peer in addition to the operating
state of each residential load within the community. The aggregator
supervises the management of the generated energy and the trading
process [16,20]. In the understudy centralized framework, illustrated in

In this study, the community microgrid has been proposed to allow
residents in the neighborhood to generate and share renewable energy
within the local grid while their surplus electricity can be contributed to
the grid or sold to other neighbors in the local community, which
fostering a localized energy marketplace and leading to promoting the
renewable energy adoption, and reducing reliance on the main grid. In
this neighborhood system model, a group of SHs are connected to the
main grid to form what is called a community microgrid [9]. These
homes are linked with an advanced metering and communication system, which are coordinated via an aggregator. Besides, the PV power
system is designed to have parallel operation with the electric utility
grid and interconnected with it. The power conditioning units included
in the power network convert the DC power generated by the solar
panels into AC power consistent with the voltage and power quality
requirements of the main grid. In addition a bi-directional interface is
used between AC output circuits of the PV system and the main power
network. This allows the generated solar power to either supply on-site
electrical loads, or to back feed the grid when output power of the solar
system exceeds the on-site electrical loads. However, when the load
demand is greater than the PV system output, the additional power
4

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

Fig. 1. Schematic of the neighborhood energy network shared architecture.

Fig. 1, an aggregator has been utilized to manage the electricity usage of
all SHs.

falling within 7:00 pm and 7:00 am, designated in Fig. 2 by green shaded
sectors. Whereas the specific times of the day when energy usage is at
peak, i.e. the peak electricity (On-Peak) hours, are set within 11:00 am
and 5:00 pm, designated in the figure by red shaded sectors. Besides, a
transition period between peak and off-peak hours, i.e. the Mid-Peak
hours, is considered. These hours are appointed between 7:00 am to
11:00 am and 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm, indicated in the Fig. 2 as yellow
shaded areas. The electricity demand during the Mid-Peak hours seems
to be somewhat lower as compared to peak hours, and rates are
moderately priced. Table 1 lists different pricing tariffs that are
employed in the understudy problem for calculating the electricity bills
of the community peers.

2.3. Photovoltaic residential system
Commonly, solar systems are employed to relieve the stress on the
main grid particularly at high-demand peak hours (daytimes when
electricity consumption is highest). A PV residential system of 20 kW has
been installed in the understudy CMG where it is evenly distributed
among the 1st and the 2nd SHs, while the 3rd SH includes no distributed
solar generation. In this case, during 6:00 am: 6:00 pm, the associated
energy sources are not able to meet the whole amount of the peer's load
demand. Thus, a peer would first fulfill his own load demand; subsequently share the excess energy with other users within the local
network. The estimated 24-h solar energy of the community microgrid
during the summer is illustrated in Fig. 2. The figure shows that, the
solar energy is produced during the peak and mid-peak periods of power
consumption which are designated in Fig. 2 by red and yellow shaded
sectors, respectively). The period of the day when the electricity demand
is at its lowest level, i.e. the Off-Peak or low-demand peak hours, are

2.4. Residential energy storage system
In the SHs, energy storage systems play a key role in managing energy usage efficiently. Due to having high energy density, long lifespan,
and capability to hold a charge for long periods, Lithium-ion (Li-ion)
batteries are the most important among the modern energy storage
systems [21]. It is used as an integral component of a SH to store surplus

Fig. 2. Total daily demand and generation of the community microgrid.
5

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

conducted when requested. Whereas the second EV type is Nissan Leaf
Model 3, which accompanied with a 40.0 kWh Li-Ion battery pack, is
that incorporated into the 2nd SH and charged from 50 % to 100 % SOC
under a semi-fast charging mode i.e. nearly within 2.5 h. Nissan and
Tesla EVs are addressed as uninterruptible residential loads. The
charging rates of the incorporated EVs are illustrated in Fig. 3. The EVs'
rate of charge and SOC are indicated in Fig. 3 in blue bars and red lines,
respectively, (Charged Electric Vehicles Magazine, 2022). Daily, the
Tesla EVs are assumed to arrive at the 1st and 3rd SHs at 5:00 pm while
Nissan EV is assumed to arrive at the 2nd SH at 2:00 pm.

Table 1
Electricity pricing schemes for the understudy local network during summer
days.
Energy transfer

Energy pricing scheme

Hours applicable
From

From main grid
to peers

From peers to
main grid
Between peers of
the
community

ToU pricing tariff

FiT
Incentive-based
modified mid-market
rate pricing scheme

To

7:00
7:00
pm
am
7:00
11:00
am
am
5:00
7:00
pm
pm
11:00
5:00
am
pm
Throughout the
day
Throughout the
day

Electricity
price (¢/KWh)
8.7
12.2
12.2
18.2

2.6. Residential electrical loads

4.8

This study targeting consumed energy management for each SH via
adjusting the controllable loads in accordance with a smart scheduling
programming included in the centralized CEMS of the whole peers in the
community i.e. a demand side management is designed to schedule the
operation of the CMG clients' electrical loads (ON-OFF connection to the
supply). Basically, the load adjustment scheme allows the system
capability to minimize the electricity consumption during high-demand
peak periods by delaying loads to the off-peak and mid-peak periods
which can be obtained via scheduling the load operating times [24].
Commonly, households own various types of appliances and residential
loads that basically can be divided into two categories: fixed and
schedulable loads. The fixed loads are non-schedulable loads, as the
fixed loads do not functioning with interruption or shifting i.e. their
operative times and starting of operation times cannot be modified. To
explain further, the On/Off operation of these loads is performed at the
request of the household according to the as-needed basis. Nevertheless,
the schedulable loads represent controllable loads as their on-times and
off-times are adjustable. Based on the type of household electricity
consumption, these loads can be classified as interruptible and uninterruptible loads. The former loads can be shifted or interrupted during
the allowed operation periods as they have undefined but limited
operative times which are specified by the scheduling technique. While,
the later loads can be delayed or advanced but do not accept to be
interrupted during their operation as their operating durations are
specific. In the understudy microgrid, the appliances and residential
loads equipped with each SH is shown in Table 2 [4], which describes
what can be called the unscheduled operation, in which operation of
each load is modeled using specific constraints such as preferable start
and end operating times, as specified by the users.
It is clear from Table 2 that, the understudy SHs have various consumption and generation patterns, even in quantity or in time allocation
around the day. Specifically, the community has the following demand
characteristics and on-site generation technologies for each SH: the 1st
SH has an average demand of 71.05 kWh/day and 75.0 kWh capacity
normal charging EV. The 2nd SH has an average demand of 156.74
kWh/day, and includes a residential battery storage of 12.0 kWh, and a
62.0 kWh capacity semi-fast charging EV. The 3rd SH has an average
demand of 60.26 kWh/day and 75.0 kWh capacity normal charging EV,
whereas it includes no battery storage system. The average daily demand of the whole community is 288.05 kWh.
In general, the proposed coordinated CEMS for the understudy
neighborhood area is designed to reduce load peaks (flatten out the
demand curve) and ensure the supply and demand balance of the local
power network, customers respond to the instructions of community
microgrid dispatch during on-peak hours of power consumption and
carry out short-time interruption of designated interruptible loads for a
specified times and/or make limited deferring for particular uninterruptible loads. Thus, when the consumption peak is minimized by
means of optimal scheduling and the locally generated energy is shared
based on game-theory trading, accordingly less electricity bill can be
paid.

Dynamic price

energy produced by renewable sources during the low energy demand
times to be used later during on-peak hours or when there is a deficiency
in renewable energy generation On the contrary, during batteries'
discharge process the stored energy is released back into the SH's power
system or to other homes within the local power network, leading to
reduce reliance on the main grid and optimize energy consumption [22].
For the under study system, Li-ion battery storage system is installed
for the 2nd SH with 12.0 KWh capacity to support the microgrid with its
discharged energy during the nighttime i.e. from 7:00 pm: 12:00 am,
however it can charge during the daytime i.e. from 7:00 am: 6:00 pm.
When the 2nd SH has a deficiency in energy generated from its own solar
system, i.e. its own solar energy does not fulfill its own demand; the
energy can be drawn from its own battery storage system through the
discharging process. In addition, the excess stored energy in battery
storage system can be exported to others peers within the community
microgrid or to the main grid. As the PV generation is obtainable during
the daytime while the battery generation is available during the nighttime, this scenario allows all prosumers collaborate in the energy supplying mode to share their excess energy with other members within the
community.
2.5. Electric vehicles as residential loads
Electric vehicles are anticipated to be common loads in modern
power grids. Due to the convenience and low charging cost, most of EVs
charging is accomplished at home. This situation may increase residential energy demand leading to increasing the residential peak demand. Accordingly there is an urgent need to incorporate the residential
EVs charging in smart home energy management system. Integrating
EVs as a residential load to SH by means of home energy management
system provides many features for the household and the main power
grid, as smart EV charging reduces peak demand and flattens the profile
of energy consumption [23].
EVs incorporation into distribution local network can be improved
when EVs charging is managed via coordinated (controlled) charging
scheme, e.g. charging the EVs during off-peak hours. In contrary, in
uncoordinated (uncontrolled) charging strategy, the EVs begins immediately upon arrival at home (usually during load peak periods), or after
a fixed delay set by the user. In the proposed strategy, to avoid high
electricity bills on one hand, and the coincident peak demand and hence
overloading problem on the other hand, coordinated charging of EVs is
adopted depending on optimization algorithm. The coordinated
charging can be achieved utilizing the central aggregator that manages
EVs on/off charging operation.
In this research two types of EVs are incorporated to the SHs: the first
EV type is a Long Range Tesla. Tesla is incorporated to the 1st and 3rd
SHs and charged from 10 % to 90 % State-of-Charge (SOC) under a
normal charging mode, i.e. within 6 h, and the charging process is
6

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

Fig. 3. Real-time charging rate for the understudy electrical vehicles: (a) Nissan, (b) Tesla.
Table 2
Residential load data of the community engaged peers.
Appliances

Smart home 1

Smart home 2

Smart home 3

Rating(KW)

Time usage

Duration(h)

Rating(KW)

Time usage

Duration(h)

Rating(KW)

Time usage

Duration(h)

0.1
0.6
0.4
1
1
1.5

7 pm–10 pm
6 pm–12 am
12 am–12 am
7 am–9 am
2 pm–4 pm
6 pm–7 pm

3
6
24
2
2
1

0.25
0.2
0.35
1.18
1.14
1

6 pm–10 pm
7 pm–10 pm
12 am–12 am
7 am–8 am
10 pm–12 am
4 pm–5 pm

4
3
24
1
2
1

0.16
0.1
0.13
0.9
1.5
0.5

7 pm–11 pm
6 pm–10 pm
12 am–12 am
8 am–9 am
12 pm–3 pm
11 am–12 pm

4
4
24
1
3
1

6 pm–6 am

2

2

2

2

6 pm–6 am

2

7 am–6 am

2

7 am–10 am
7 am–4 pm
–

1
1
–

9 pm–6 am
7 am–11 am
6 am–12 pm

1
2
6

1st hour:1
2nd hour: 0.8
1st hour:0.5
2nd hour: 0.4
0.6
1.1
–

1 pm–8 pm

5 pm–10 am

1st hour:1.5
2nd hour: 1.2
1st hour:1.3
2nd hour: 1
2
1.2
40.0 KWh

8 pm–6 am

Clothes dryer
Vacuum cleaner
Lithium-ion battery

1st hour:1
2nd hour: 0.6
1st hour:1
2nd hour: 0.8
1
0.8
–

6 pm–6 am
2 pm–6 pm
–

2
1
–

Uninterruptible
Laptop
EV
Water pump

0.5
Fig. 3 (b).
1.2

12 am–6 am
5 pm–10 pm
5 pm–8 am

6
6
7

0.1
Fig. 3 (a).
1.5

8 pm–7 am
2 pm–4 pm
12 am–12 am

5
3
7

0.075
Fig. 3 (b).
1.2

12 pm–2 pm
5 pm–10 pm
9 am–5 pm

2
6
8

Non-schedulable
TV
Light
Refrigerator
Microwave
AC
Iron
Interruptible
Dishwasher
Washing machine

2.7. Electricity pricing mechanisms

2.7.1. Electricity tariffs
In the pricing mechanism, to bill home users, electricity costs have
been managed based on Time-of-Use (ToU) rates and Feed-in Tariff (FiT)
denoted as R TOU (t) and R F iT , respectively. These rates have been
employed to promote RESs expansion and energy sharing between the
neighborhood network peers and the main grid. The ToU is applied for
consumption while the FiT schema is defined for selling excess power

Pricing of energy trading in CMGs can be classified into two different
categories: on one hand, pricing of energy sold to and purchased from
the main grid and on the other hand, pricing of energy traded among
network peers. The following sub-sections demonstrate the pricing
mechanisms that are adopted in this study.
7

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

generation to the utility grid.
The ToU is a dynamic pricing scheme in which various rates are
applied based on the time of the day. Thus, several hours are defined as
off-peak, mid-peak and on-peak periods. The ToU offers high electricity
rates at peak electricity consumption periods and low rates at the offpeak and intermediate peak electricity consumption periods. The basic
objective of off-peak and mid-peak hours pricing is to incentivize customers to consume electricity when it is least in demand leading to
significant shifting in electricity consumption away from the highdemand peak hours. Whereas the excess energy from any prosumer is
rated according to the FiT principles, where a procumers is paid a fixed
price for the electricity they export to the grid. This policy motivates the
households to be small-scale producers of clean energy in the sake of
getting financial gains.
In this research, a summer day electricity rates is provided as ToU
which is divided into three periods named on-peak, mid-peak, and offpeak periods which are given as 18.2 ¢/kWh, 12.2 ¢/kWh, and 8.7
¢/kWh, respectively as given in Table 1 and Fig. 4, where the electricity
rates are adapted from [25]. Furthermore, the FiT is assumed to be 4.8
¢/kwh and is applied for all the daytime.

supply–demand ratio) to generate what can be called incentive-based
pricing mechanism. Meaning that μ has a low value when the surplus
energy is low whereas its value increased with the increase of the surplus
energy so that this factor acts as an incentive which encourages the
household to minimize their load demand when excess energy is low. In
the proposed pricing mechanism, μ has been taken as a function of the
ratio r between the consumer required energy and prosumer surplus
energy. In the classical formulation, the trading price R P2P has been
calculated depending on a modified version of a mid-market rate price
[16,27], using the following equation:

2.7.2. Electricity pricing: an incentive-based pricing mechanism
In this work, the self-consumption in the SHs and selling energy to
neighbors within the local area have been taken into account to provide
more financial gains than selling energy back to main grid which is done
via a P2P electricity trading mechanism. One of the problems associated
with P2P trade is that some households may increase the cost of the
other peers to minimize their own cost. This issue has been addressed in
this research by adopting a priority base concept for the P2P trade
through which the energy trading within the CMG is encouraged. This
paper discusses a modified mid-market rate pricing mechanisms for P2P
energy trading. Comparing to other energy pricing mechanisms such as
bilateral contract-based scheme, double auction approach, and
discriminate pricing strategy using game theory, this scheme makes the
electricity pricing process more simple, time-saving, and clear to users
[26–28], as the P2P prices are set based on predefined formulas. The
proposed pricing scheme calculates the price for each trading pair, i.e.
consumer and prosumer pair, based on the pair data, such as the load
demand required by the consumers and the surplus energy offered by the
prosumers, in addition to electricity price offered by the main grid i.e.
purchasing price R TOU and the sale price R FiT . All the peers are supposed to offer electricity price for P2P energy trading lower than the
dynamic electricity pricing scheme offered by the main gird but higher
than the feed-in tariff, i.e. R TOU > R P2P > R FiT . In this study, a realistic
trading mechanism has been considered in which a factor μ has been
defined as the ratio between the excess energy offered by the prosumer
and the consumer's energy demand (which can be called the

In this study, a function f(r) has been introduced to control the trading
performance and determining how the financial incentive can be optimized for the prosumers within the community microgrid. If the excess
energy exceeds the load demand at the time sample t, μ1 > μ > 1, μ can
be selected based on the following equation:

R P2P = μ •

R TOU + R FiT
2

(1)

As R TOU > R P2P > R FiT , then the incentive factor should be related
to a specific range, i.e. μ1 > μ > μ2 , where

μ1 =

2 • R TOU
R TOU + R FiT

(2)

μ2 =

2 • R FiT
R TOU + R FiT

(3)

μ = (μ1 − 1) • f(r) + 1

(4)

where, if the excess energy is lower than the load demand at the time
sample t, 1 > μ > μ2 , μ can be selected based on the following equation:

μ = (1 − μ2 ) • f(r) + μ2

(5)

The f(r) function may take different form like linear, nonlinear, or
fuzzy function. In this work, the modified mid-market rate has been
c r
− c r
performed utilizing a Hyperbolic function, i.e. (r) = tanch(r) = eec r −+ee− c r ,
where c is a constant. The Hyperbolic function has been introduced to
relieve the trading complexity as it is easy to implement. Besides, the
performance of this function can be optimized to maximize the economic benefits for the prosumers and the consumers both based on the
supply–demand ratio through optimizing the value of the parameter c,
which has been taken in this study as c = 1. The proposed P2P trading
mechanism helps consumers reduce their electricity bill and prosumers
have financial gains, through a win-win trading scheme for both. It
worth to note that the aggregator calculates different trading price for
each transaction which allows the user attaining variable financial
profits at each time sample t depending on his offered surplus energy
and the energy required by the other users.
3. Mathematical problem formulation
This section discusses the research on providing a mathematical
model of the optimal load scheduling methodology and energy sharing
platform for energy trading among the peers of the local power network.
3.1. Day-ahead scheduling: optimal load scheduling methodology
Commonly, the profile of the total demand loads in CMGs is
considered the crucial input for determining the required capacity of
distributed energy resources (DER) that are need to be installed on site.
So that the initial electricity demand assumptions shown in Table 2
should be adjusted via applying an optimal load scheduling technique in
which non-essential loads are powered off during peak demand periods
and shifted to either the off-peak or mid-peak hours. Meaning that, the
suggested coordinated CEMS has the ability to flatten the demand load
profiles of the microgrid members and smooth out their load peaks

Fig. 4. Dynamic grid tariff, feed-in tariff, and P2P electricity trading prices.
8

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

which reduces the peak-to-average ratio which can be translated to the
possibility for lower electricity rates and improvement of the CMG
stability.
On one hand, load scheduling can be described as Mixed-Integer
Problem (MIP). On the other hand, designating decision variables to
meet specific constraints is needed, thus load scheduling problem can be
described also as Constraint Programming (CP) Problem. Based on the
aforementioned above, the scheduling problem can be addressed as
CMIP problem. Basically, combined MIP and CP optimization problems
are non-convex problem. In such problems, the best feasible optimal
solution can be achieved through designing an approximation technique
such as the Relaxation and Rounding method [24,29]. As stated in [24],
the adopted strategy for solving the MIP-CP load scheduling within the
understudy CMG can be applied in four steps: The 1st step is developing
a CMIP optimization problem to minimize a predefined objective function, J(vi ), where vi is the decision variable. At any time interval t, to
express the fixed and interruptible loads operation status S(t), i.e. their
ON or OFF operation, the decision variables that express S(t) have to be
boolean. Whereas the variables that express the time shift of the uninterruptible loads have to be integer. S(t) can be defined by (6),
{
0 for turned OFF load
S(t) =
(6)
1 for turned ON load

site renewables and storage systems. Commonly, trading energy within
CMG is a successful way to minimize electricity price [30]. In this study,
sharing the on-site surplus generated electricity between the users has
been addressed. It is supposed that households have their own energy
demand information and anticipate the generated energy in advance (i.
e. a day-ahead estimation). In addition, the energy trade and consumption is done in an open energy market. Also an energy trading
mechanism has been suggested depending on game theory which is an
effective solution for optimal real-time problems. It is employed as a
decision-making scheme in which many game players search for the best
energy transaction among the peers under different constraints. The
players can attain the best trading either through cooperating with each
other or in a competition-based non-cooperating process. However, in a
cooperative game process, the players work in various feasible coalitions
and cooperate with each other in such a way that best trading of all
players is achieved at the same time [31,32]. In this work, the proposed
architecture of the CMG consists of various distributed energy resources,
including two solar photovoltaic rooftop systems and one Li-ion battery
storage system distributed within the local grid, as depicted in Fig. 1, to
meet the load demand of the community. In the implemented game
model for each energy transaction, available energy from the distributed
resources and battery storage systems and load demand of each consumer are considered players in the trading problem.
The adopted priority rule in energy trading is based on maximum
energy demand between all the peers and lowest price. At each time
interval, the aggregator is in charge of establishing the priority and
scheduling the loads, in addition, ensures that energy transactions are
done in an organized way. Energy transactions are based on the priority
rules and the available energy used to meet the demand. Accordingly, in
each time interval, one energy transaction may be conducted among two
or more peers. Meaning that, for setting up energy transactions, the
following scenarios may occur: if the surplus energy of the prosumer
with high priority is not sufficient to meet the demand of this consumer,
other prosumers should compensate that deficiency and deliver this
consumer with the required energy. The second scenario is that, if the
demand of a consumer is lower than the excess energy offered by the
prosumer with high priority, this prosumer may provide his surplus
energy to multiple consumers. It is worth to know that the trading
process has been conducted under the assumption that the power
consumed by each peer in the community may be produced by its own
PV system, locally by the PV system of other peers in the community,
and/or imported from the main grid. In addition, all the prosumers are
assumed to offer electricity price for P2P energy trading lower than that
offered by the main gird via the dynamic electricity pricing scheme but
higher than the FiT, [33].
At each time interval of Nt -hours time duration, i.e. t ∈ τ =
{1, 2, ………, Nt } where Nt is selected to be 24 meaning that the trading
process is applied for 24-hours time duration with hourly sampling time,
the following steps sum up the trading rules suggested in this work:

The scheduling problem can be formulated by (7):
minimizeJ(vi ), ∀vi ∈ V
where
V=

(7)

{
}
⃒
Nd • Δt|l∈Lu ∪ S(t) ⃒l∈L , is the set of all decision variables.
i

Subject to
vi ∈ {0, 1}
Nd ∈ {1, 2, ….…, Nmax },
where Lu and Li are two sets of all uninterruptable and interruptible
loads, respectively, and Nd the expected delay which is represented in
number of samples. Nmax is the maximum number of delayed time periods and specified by the user based on his preferences, thus the
maximum allowed time shift for completing the load task can be
expressed as Nmax • Δt, where Δt is the sampling period.
The 2nd step is the linear programing (LP) relaxation in which an LP
is formulated from the developed CMIP model via eliminating the integral constraints, meaning that for each vi ∈ V, the constraint vi ∈
{0, 1} is relaxed to xi ≥ 0 and Nd ∈ {1, 2, ….…, Nmax } to the inequity
0 ≤ Nd ≤ (Nmax + 1). The 3rd step is keeping on with minimizing the
pre-specified objective function, but over a wider range of solutions, i.e.
minimizeJ(vi ). Assuming a relaxed set Vr , where V ⊆ Vr , is existed. The
vi ∈Vr

4th step is searching for the best LP solution over the relaxed set Vr using
optimization technique. The obtained solution in this stage can be noted
as v*i . At this point, the following should be considered: If the value of v*i
is integral, then it will be taken as the solution of the CMIP problem.
Otherwise, if the relaxed optimal solution has nonintegral value,
rounding process has to be implemented to obtain best feasible solution,
i.e. non-fractional solution, through rounding the solution of the relaxed
vi of the original
problem v*i for getting an approximate solution ̃
formulated CMIP problem.

1. First of all, each prosumer of Np prosumers in the community should
meet his load demand, as expressed by (8),
(
)
Esc (t) = fmin Esg (t) , Ed (t)
(8)

where, for each sampling period t, Esc (t) is the required energy form the
self-generated energy of each prosumer to meet his demand (selfconsumed energy), Esg (t) is the total self-generated energy of each prosumer, and Ed (t) is the energy demand for each peer

3.2. Energy sharing via peer-to-peer trading
As discussed before, delivering the surplus generated electricity by
on-site RESs to the utility grid is not financially attractive because of the
disparity between prices of the exported energy to the grid and that of
the imported energy from the grid. Therefore, effective techniques are
required to be introduced for energy management in CMGs that have on-

2. The surplus or deficit energy of each peer is estimated via calculating
the energy difference ΔE(t) between his own generated energy and
his load demand which are is given as:

9

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

ΔE(t) = Esg (t) − Ed (t)

(9)

Esur (t) = ΔE(t) if Esg (t) ≥ Ed (t)

(10)

Edef (t) = ΔE(t) if Esg (t) < Ed (t)

(11)

Table 3
Pseudo-code of energy sharing within the community microgrid.
1 : Game theoretic-based P2P energy trading
2 : Procedure
3 : Define system parameters
4 : Collect loads and generation information
5 : Initialize
6 : the optimal main objective function
=∞
7 : for = 1: do
for = 1:
do
8 :
each prosumer should meet his demand using equation (8)
9 :
estimating the surplus or deficit energy of each peer using (9) to (11)
10 :
( )>0
if
11 :
Assign the peer as a provider
12 :
else
13 :
Assign the peer as receiver
14 :
end if
15 :
end for
16 :
and
save the information of the providers and the receivers in two sets
17 :
18 :
prioritize the providers in
list based on energy levels in ascending order
19 :
prioritize the receivers in
list based on demand levels in descending order
20 :
while there are providers and receivers to trade do
21 :
select a receiver and prosumer with the highest priorities
22 :
calculate energy to be traded ∆ ( )
23 :
update energy levels for providers and receivers
24 :
record associations between receiver and provider
25 :
record power transferred from provider to receiver
26 :
remove receivers or providers with zero energy from the priority lists
27 :
if all consumers' demands are fulfilled
28 :
break from the loop
29 :
end if
30 :
end while
31 :
store final consumer and prosumer energy levels at the time interval
32 :
store power details for each consumer and prosumer at each time interval t
33 : end for
34 : end procedure

where Esur (t) denotes the peer's surplus energy after fulfilling its own
demand at time interval t, and Edef (t) is the peer's unmet demand at time
interval t.
3. The aggregator assigns the peers who have surplus as providers while
those have deficit energy and all the consumers are assigned as receivers, then initiate two sets to include the prosumers and consumers each individually, called the providers set Spro (a set of
prosumers with excess energy which including n peers) and receivers
set Srec (a set of all consumers and prosumers with deficit energy
which including m peers), respectively.
4. The trading or priority sets Ppro and Prec are obtained by arranging the
elements of Spro in an ascending order and the elements of Srec in
descending order, respectively. These sets can be expressed as, Ppro =
{p1 , p2 , …, pn } and Prec = {r1 , r2 , …, rm } where pi is the ith energy
provider within Ppro where i ∈ [1 n] and rj is the jth energy receiver
within Prec where j ∈ [1 m] and i and j are integer numbers.
5. Once the system's priority lists are ready, i.e. high priority for each
consumer and prosumer, the trading procedure is started.
6. Assuming r1 is the first receiver in the Prec set and p1 is the first
provider in the Ppro set. Then r1 and p1 become engaged in a trade and
make a P2P energy trading pair.
7. After completing the trade of energy trading pair, the model examines the remaining receivers' load demand that required to be
covered and the available surplus energy from the providers.

each sampling period. The general framework for energy storage and
exchange among the local network peers is described in Algorithm 1 as a
pseudo-code form, as shown in Table 3.

• If the provider n still has surplus energy, after completing the trading
with the receiver m, the algorithm allows the provider n to establish
anther trading with the receiver with the next highest priority, i.e.
m + 1.
• If receiver m demand is not fulfilled by the provider n the algorithm
allows m establishing anther trading with the provider with the next
highest priority, i.e. n + 1.

3.3. Combined approach for designing the proposed community energy
management system
This section describes the combined approach that has been utilized
to design the proposed CEMS for optimal energy sharing and load
scheduling within the understudy CMG. These two targets can be achieved through minimizing the electricity bill for all consumers and
magnify the financial incentives for all procumers, this objectives can be
expressed by the net energy cost of the households during the optimization time horizon (Nt -houres) i.e. the summation of the daily net cost
of the energy even delivered or received by each household, Ch (t), as
specified by (12) & (13):

8. The previous step is repeated until all the receivers meet their demand or all the providers sell their surplus energy, whichever is less
in number.
As depicted in the schematic Fig. 1, the understudy microgrid has an
integrated connection to the utility grid. This connection enables the
microgrid to exchange power with the utility network. Accordingly,
after completing the final step, the customer whose demand did not be
met completely will import the unfulfilled energy from the grid however
the consumer who is unable to sell all of his excess energy for the other
peers within the local area will export the remaining electricity to the

minimize

Nh ∑
Nt
∑
h=1 t=1

buy,P
buy,P2P
sell,P
sell,P2P
G2P
P2G
Ch (t) = Ebuy,G
.Δt − Esell,G
.Δt
h,t .R h,t .Δt + Eh,t .R h,t
h,t .R h,t .Δt − Eh,t .R h,t

grid. The advantages of employed aforementioned priority algorithm
are that it provides prosumers financial gains via selling energy to
consumers with the most demand, minimizing the number of trading
transaction attained by a single provider at the same time, leading to
minimize the number of deals between the receivers and the providers at

Ch (t)

(12)

(13)

where Nh represents the number of household within the community,
buy,G

Eh,t

buy,P

and Eh,t

are the total energy consumed by the household h from

the grid and the other households at the time interval t, respectively.

10

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

Esell,G
and Esell,P
are the total energy delivered by the household h to the
h,t
h,t

grid and the other households at the time interval t, respectively. R G2P
h,t ,
buy,P2P

R h,t

sell,P2P
, R P2G
are the price of the electricity bought by the
h,t and R h,t

household h from the grid, bought from by the household h other peers
in the community, sold by the household h to the grid, and sold by the
household h to other peers in the community, respectively, at the time
interval t. For a day-ahead estimated energy trading and load scheduling
within the CMG.
The energy balance constraints that have been taken into consideration during the optimization process of the energy sharing among the
CMG peers can be described are as follows: the power drawn from the
P2P energy trading for the household n at the time period t is denoted by
buy,P

En,t , which equals to the summation of the power consumed from PV1,
PV2 and the battery system, as expressed by Eq. (14). To ensure the
power balance within the CMG, the required power by all peers should
equal the total power bought by all the households, as expressed by Eq.
(15). Whereas the value of the total power bought by the household n at
buy,T

the time period t, En,t , equals the total power obtained from the P2P

buy,P
buy,G
energy trading, En,t , and that supplied from the main grid, En,t , as

given by Eq. (16).

1
2
Ebuy,P
= Ebuy,PV
+ Ebuy,PV
+ Ebuy,Battery
n,t
n,t
n,t
n,t

(14)

buy,T
Eload
n,t = En,t

(15)

Ebuy,T
= Ebuy,G
+ Ebuy,P
n,t
n,t
n,t

(16)

The proposed CEMS represented in two combined processes, i.e.
optimal load scheduling and P2P energy trading, is explained by the
flowchart shown in Fig. 5.
4. Seagull optimization algorithm (SOA)
Authors of [34] introduced a natural-inspired optimization approach
based on imitating the migration and attacking behaviors of a seagull.
The Seagull Optimization Algorithm (SOA) is utilized to solve optimization problems through imitating seagulls' action while looking for
food in nature, specifically the seagull's migration and attacking behaviors. Due to its feature in solving high computational cost problems,
SOA is applicable for solving large-scale real-world problems. During
their migration, seagulls attack other birds above the sea. Seagulls'
migration and attacking behaviors could be incorporated for optimization problem based on minimizing a specific objective function. The
mathematical models of these behaviors are discussed in details in this
section. The modeling is done in two phases, i.e. the migration and
attacking phases which respectively represent the exploration and
exploitation activities of the SOA used for exploring the search space and
determine its searching efficacy. Through the former activity the search
algorithm tries to reach wide range of the search space to avoid trapping
in local-optima (i.e. global search ability), whereas the latter activity
confirms searching of optimal solutions within the specific region (i.e.
local search ability). For a given problem, obtaining the optimal solution
needs a balance between these two activities, as excessive exploration
may result in slow convergence and inefficiency of the search algorithm
while excessive exploitation may result in a premature convergence to a
suboptimal solution [34–37].

Fig. 5. Flowchart of the proposed community energy management system.

→
→
position of a search agent (i.e. a seagull) is Ps , its new position Cs that
grantee collision avoidance with other search agents (i.e. neighboring
seagulls in the hunting group) can be modeled by utilizing a variable A
as formulated by (17).
→
→
Cs = A × Ps (i)

4.1. Modeling of seagull migration behavior: Exploration phase

(17)

where i is the present iteration, and A expresses the movement manner
of the search agent in the specific search space and can be given by (18)

Through this phase SOA simulates how a seagull group moves from a
position to another. During this phase, three conditions should be fulfilled by each seagull in the hunting group i.e. avoiding the collision
with other seagulls in the group, moving towards the best neighbor's
direction, and keeping close to the best search agent. If the current

A = fc (1 − i/nmax )

(18)

where i = 0, 1, 2, …, imax and imax is the maximum iterations number, fc is
11

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

a parameter used to control the movement behavior of search agent (the
variable A). fc is linearly dropped from its initial value fc0 to 0.
In addition to avoiding the collision with neighbors in the group, the
seagull (the search agent) should move towards the direction of best
neighbor i.e. the best-fit seagull. This action can be expressed mathematically as:
(→
̅→
̅→ )
Ms = B • Ps (i) − Pbs (i)
(19)

Table 4
Pseudo-code of seagull optimization algorithm.
.

1 : Procedure
2 : Define Parameters of the CMG system,
3 :
Energy pricing rates including ToU rates, P2P rates and FiT,
4 : Collect Power rates and operating conditions of all the residential loads,
5 :
Estimation data of power resources and battery storage system rates
6 : Initialize
Generate random population and set the values of variables , ,
7 :
Set parameters of the optimization process termination criteria,
8 :
The optimal main objective function
9 :
Set the values of the control parameters i.e.
10 :
11 : Output
The best search agent
12 :
do
13 : While the optimal load scheduling is not obtained or ≤
Migration behavior calculation,
∈ [0 1]
Generate a random number
14 :
Generate a random number ∈ [0 2π]
15 :
Attacking behavior calculation,
16 :
Determine the spiral turns radius over the migration action
17 :
Determine the distance ⃗ from Eq. (21)
18 :
Determine the updated position of each seagull ⃗( ) using Eq. (22)
19 :
Applying a rounding scheme to get feasible solutions
20 :
Do the P2P energy trading and import/export from main grid
21 :
Compute the fitness function value using Eq. (12)

→
̅→
where M s is the updated position of the search agent, and Pbs is the
position of the best fit search agent. The variable B administrates the
balance between the exploration and exploitation actions i.e. it is
responsible for the smooth transition from exploration phase to exploitation phase. The value of B changes randomly, as given in (20):
B = 2 • A2 • rm

(20)

where rm is a random number between 0 and 1.
The final step in the migration phase is that the search agent has to
keep near to the best search agent i.e. updating the search agent position
with regard to the best search agent position. Accordingly, the distance
→
D s between each seagull (the search agent) and the seagull that have the
minimum fitness value during the previous iteration (the best fit search
agent) can be given as:
⃒→ → ⃒
→
⃒
⃒
D s = ⃒Cs + M s ⃒
(21)

22 :
23 :
24 :
25 :

Go to the next iteration, = + 1
End while
Return the best load scheduling to be used for next day energy management
End procedure

results show the impacts of the proposed coordinated CEMS on
increasing utilization of RESs, reducing consumers' bills, and enable
prosumers to obtain financial incentives. The modeling is done utilizing
CMIP programming that optimally schedules the operation of households' residential loads and conducting a cooperative game theory-based
P2P energy trading. The proposed CEMS model has been examined via
simulations conducted on the understudy community model using
MATLAB software to assess its benefits and shortcomings comparing
with the reference operating scenario. The power rating of all peers'
residential loads and their operating periods as well as EVs and battery
storage system charging rates are given over 24-hours time duration in
Table 2.
Data concerning the incorporated EVs, installed PV and BESS of each
household are presented in Table 5. These assets are utilized for partial
or full covering of household energy demand through P2P energy
trading. It is also assumed that the capability of selling energy to the
utility is also available. The main grid provides the electricity tariff for
24-hrours optimization horizon as displayed in Fig. 4. In addition, the
customer is pay off at a price calculated using a modified mid-market
rate pricing mechanism.
As stated previously, the coordinated CEMS has been conducted in
this study according to the following: The prosumers should primarily
meet their energy demand subsequently share their excess energy with
other peers in the local network During the day hours, whenever the
solar energy is available or the offered grid energy is rated at low price,
the prosumer's storage system can be charged however during the night
hours, the batteries may be utilized as power source. Finally, the energy
still demanded by the peers can be supplied by the utility.

4.2. Modeling of seagull attacking behavior: exploitation phase
The local search of SOA is described through this phase. Seagulls can
change the attack angle and attack speed constantly during their
migration, besides, where at the time of attack the seagulls move in
spiral shape. If rs is the radius of each turn of the motion spiral, and c1 ,
and c2 are two constants to form the spiral. θ is the attack angle which
has a random value between 0 and 2π. The updated position of search
agent can be formulated in x, y, and z plan as follows [34]:
) ̅→
(→
→
Ps (i) = D s • x́ • ý • ź + Pbs (i)
(22)
where x = rs • cos(θ), y = rs • sin(θ), z = rs • θ, and rs = c1 • ec2 θ .
To sum up, at the beginning of the optimization process, SOA is
started with a number of random populations equal to the seagull
number in the hunting group and represent their positions. During the
iterations, the search agents update their positions based on the current
position of the seagull, the position of the best seagull, and a random
term to promote exploration. Finally, with the progress of the optimization process, the completion of attack behavior on the prey can be
done and the global optimal solution can be obtained. The termination
criteria, that should be tested in every iteration during optimization
process, are reaching the maximum iteration number and the fitness
value hitting a given bound, in addition, the average relative change in
the best objective function value over particular number of iterations
should be lower than or equal to a predefined tolerance. The procedure
of SOA used for solving the understudy energy management problem of
the CMGs is described in Algorithm 2 as a pseudo-code form, as shown in
Table 4.

Table 5
Smart homes energy resources and integrated EVs and Daily demand data.

5. Results and discussion
This section presents results of modeling neighborhood community
area including rooftop solar PVs, plug-in EVs and battery storage systems which are incorporated in three SHs that represent the community.
A community energy management system is proposed while targeting
two main objectives: energy storage and exchange among the network
peers and optimally schedule the residential loads. The simulation
12

Smart
homes

Energy sources
PV rooftop

Battery

1st smart
home
2nd smart
home
3rd smart
home

Size
(10KW)
SIZE
(10KW)
⨯

⨯
Capacity
(12KWh)
⨯

EVs

Daily energy
demand

75.0 kWh,
Tesla EV
62.0 kWh,
Nissan EV
75.0 kWh.
Tesla EV

71.05 KW
156.74 KW
60.26 KW

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

The decision variables of the applied SOA are a combination of the
status of the residential loads operation and the time shifts of the
uninterruptible loads, thus the number of all decision variables of the
scheduling problem is 321 variables. The SOA parameters, i.e. A and B,
are calculated using Eqs. (18) and (19), where the fc is linearly dropped
to zero from its initial value fc0 , which is set to 2.0 in this study. This
algorithm performs effectively in minimizing the overall electricity bill
price comparing to the reference case (the unscheduled case). Overall,
the proposed coordinated CEMS provides efficient loads scheduling and
energy sharing with regard to overall cost reduction.
The following lines discuss the numerical results of two operating
scenarios i.e. the operation with and without implementation of the
designed coordinated CEMS. The former one is referred as “Reference
Case”, whereas the latter scenario is referred as “Proposed Case”. A
comparison has been conducted with regard to the electricity bill price
and the self-consumption ratio. The features of the proposed CEMS have
been outlined in the Table 6 regarding the daily demand supplied by the
main grid, electricity bill, self-consumption ratio and overall saving. For
the applied SOA over 300 iterations and 30 population size, under the
2nd operating scenario, the convergence characteristics of the best
objective value are as follows: the best objective value that obtained by
the SOA is ¢161.36, whereas it converged within 229 iterations. As the
simulation takes 930 s average computation time (i.e. computational
efficiency) as it has been implemented in a computer with an Intel®_Core™ i7-8850H processor, 2.59 GHz CPU, and 32.0 GB RAM. The
numerical results are discussed and analyzed in the following paragraphs in details whereas the Figs. 6–14 illustrate the findings and
Table 6 sums up these results.
Under the two operating scenarios, Figs. 6–8 illustrate the results of
employing CEMS for managing the community's residential loads and
resources over 24-hour time horizon. The red, yellow, purple and green
bars in these figures represent the energy supplied by the solar system
installed on the rooftop of the 1st SH, the PV system incorporated into
the 2nd SH, the battery storage system, and the grid, respectively. While
the black lines display the total load demand of the 1st, the 2nd, and the
3rd smart homes, respectively. The consumption patterns of 1st SH
under the reference and the proposed operating scenarios are depicted
in Fig. 6 (a) and (b), respectively. It can be noticed from the figure that
under the reference case of operation the peak value of load demand
presents in the On-peak hours, as shown in Fig. 6(a), and is mainly
supplied by the grid. This peak is shifted to Off-peak hours and is mainly
supplied by the battery and the PV2, as shown in Fig. 6(b). It is also
noted that, under the proposed case of operation, the energy required by
the 1st SH is provided by its own solar system (PV1) during On-peak
hours, then form neighborhood solar system (PV2) and battery during
mid-peak and Off-peak hours, while it supplied by the grid during Offpeak time.
Fig. 7(a) and (b) show the consumption patterns of 2nd SH under the
reference and the proposed operating scenarios, respectively. It can be
observed that the peak demand has been provided mainly by the solar
systems (PV1 and PV2), as shown in Fig. 7(b), instead of supplying
mainly by the grid, as shown in Fig. 7(a). Moreover, most of the loads

demand of the 2nd SH is supplied from its integrated assets, i.e. PV2 and
the battery storage system, then from the neighborhood solar system
(PV1) and finally from the grid.
Fig. 8(a) and (b) illustrates the consumption patterns of the 3rd SH
under the reference and the proposed operating scenarios, respectively.
It can be observed from Fig. 8(a) that the peak demand has been moved
from the On-peak hours, under the reference operating scenario, into the
Off-peak times, under the proposed operating scenario, as shown in
Fig. 8(b). It can be remarked from Fig. 8(a) that; under the reference
case, the energy required by the 3rd SH is provided on the whole by the
main grid. While it is mainly supplied by the neighborhood assets, i.e.
PV1, PV2 and the battery storage system when applying the proposed
CEMS, indicating that its electricity bill will be reduced.
The shared energy among the community households is summarized
in Table 7. The P2P trading prices during the day utilizing the cooperative game theory based energy trading scheme are shown in Fig. 4, it is
evident from the figure that, all the P2P prices offered between the
dynamic electricity pricing scheme offered by the main gird (TOU tariff)
and the feed-in tariff, as was assumed during modeling the P2P trade.
The findings in Table 7, along with Fig. 9, are consistent with the
concept that, installing a residential solar photovoltaic system and battery storage system is an effective way to reduce grid dependence. For
more detailed analysis, the energy consumption of all households and
the overall CMG are shown in Fig. 9 for both cases of operation i.e. the
reference and proposed cases. The figure displays the power supplied by
the 1st SH, 2nd SH, and the grid in blue, red, and green bars, respectively. As indicated from the figure, utilization of the power locally
generated by the CMG is significantly increased; as a result, the grid
dependence is expected to be reduced and the solar self-consumption
ratio should be improved. As depicted in Fig. 10(a), for the understudy summer day and under the reference operating scenario, grid
dependence of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd SHs are calculated as 31.57 %, 22.0
%, and 51.24 %, respectively, where they are 27.65 %, 13.02 %, and
18.13 %, respectively, under the proposed operating scenario. The
calculated grid dependence of the overall CMG under the reference and
the proposed operating scenarios are 30.48 % and 17.69 %, respectively.
Meaning that grid dependence is reduced by 41.95 %, this reduction
gives an indication for the effectiveness of the proposed CEMS in
reducing the electricity bills and improving the main grid stability. On
the other hand, the solar self-consumption ratios of the 1st and the 2nd
households, which denotes how much of the electricity generated by
their solar systems and consumed by themselves, are 25.39 %, and
59.54 %, respectively under the reference operating scenario, as shown
in Fig. 10(b), while these ratios are 20.85 %, and 65.41 %, respectively,
under the proposed operating scenario. Despite the solar selfconsumption ratio of the 1st household is reduced by 17.91 % but its
trading enhanced by 137.48 % as will be shown later, in addition, the
ratio of the overall CMG is enhanced by 18.39 %, as it is increased from
69.51 % to 82.2 % under the reference and the proposed operating
scenarios, respectively. The increase explains the reduction in 1st
household's self-consumption ratio as the P2P energy trading utilizing
the proposed CEMS provides the 3rd SH with its required energy while
only taking into consideration the cost reduction.
The surplus generation and deficit energy occur usually as the
generated solar energy and the demand do not consistently match.
Fig. 11 shows data of excess and deficit energies of all users under the
reference and proposed operating cases. The positive value denotes
excess energy, while the negative value denotes deficit energy. The
Figure depicts that for the reference operating case significant excess
energy is available in the time periods between 8:00 am to 1:00 pm,
3:00 pm to 4:00 pm and 8:00 pm to 2:00 am, while the remaining intervals of the day is characterized mainly with deficiency of local energy, while, for the proposed operating case there is significant surplus
energy in the time intervals between 6:00 am to 8:00 am and 11:00 am
to 6:00 pm, while the remaining intervals of the day is characterized
with deficiency of local energy.

Table 6
Summary results.
Findings
Daily energy
imported from
the utility (KW)
Electricity bill
(cent)
Bill saving%a

Reference case

Proposed case

SH1

SH2

SH3

SH1

SH2

SH3

22.44

34.49

30.87

19.63

20.41

10.91

269.51

324.83

375.48

170.78

228.58

98.98

–

–

–

36.63

29.63

73.64

a

Calculation of the overall bill savings is attributed to the cost of the reference
case.
13

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

Fig. 6. 1st smart home energy consumption from rooftop solar and main grid: (a) reference case, (b) proposed case.

Fig. 7. 2nd smart home energy consumption from rooftop solar and main grid: (a) Reference case, (b) Proposed case.

Fig. 8. 3rd smart home energy consumption from rooftop solar and main grid: (a) reference case, (b) proposed case.

Delivering excess energy to the utility and trading it within the local
power network are two ways to get benefit from the solar surplus power.
Under a specified FiT (i.e. 4.8 cents per kilowatt hour of electrical energy
delivered to the main grid) and P2P energy trading mechanism,

procumers get their revenue. Fig. 12 shows the net energy cost of all SHs
due to operation under the reference and proposed cases. As illustrated
in Table 8, it is evident from the results that, after applying the proposed
CEMS an increase of the amount of energy sold by the 1st SH appeared as
14

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

Fig. 11. Peers' hourly surplus and deficit energy.

Fig. 9. The consumed energy in respect to the provider.

the net cost of the sold energy increased from ¢143.8 to ¢341.5 meaning
that his trading enhanced by 137.48 %. Whereas the 2nd SH is transformed from purchasing energy in the reference operating case (with a
pay back of ¢157.0) to energy seller (with income of ¢21.77) in the
proposed case, indicating that, the revenue of 2nd household is
improved by 113.87 %. Nevertheless the 3rd household buys energy in
both operating scenarios as he acts as a consumer and has lack of any
energy resources, but he gains financial benefits as his energy purchase
is decreased by 17.39 % as his electricity bill is reduced from ¢669.4 to ¢
553 in the reference and proposed cases, respectively. Due to applying
the proposed P2P electricity trade and exporting surplus energy to the
utility, the overall gained revenue of the community, including all peers,
is improved by 72.21 % as the net energy sharing is considered energy
purchasing from the main grid which is decreased from ¢682.6 to ¢
189.7.
In order to confirm the capability of the proposed CEMS to establish a
win-win scheme for community prosumers and customers, two comparisons have been done, as illustrated Fig. 13(a) and (b), under the
designated two operating scenarios as follows: the first comparison has
been conducted between the revenue of the prosumers under P2P energy
trading (shown in Fig. 13(a) and (b) in black lines) and that obtained
from exporting the same amount of excess energy to the main grid rather
than incorporating in the P2P trading i.e. exporting all the surplus

Fig. 12. Net energy cost of each household and the overall community: positive
and negative net cost values indicating buying and selling energy, respectively.

Fig. 10. (a) Grid dependence and (b) solar self-consumption ratio.
15

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

Fig. 13. Prosumers' revenue and consumers' electricity bill: (a) reference case, (b) proposed case.

the bill of the consumers has been reduced by 18.84 %. The same
consequence has be displayed in case of the proposed case, as the daily
obtained revenue is ¢1113.7 and ¢575.73 in case of P2P trading and
grid-only assumption, respectively. Whereas, the daily paid electricity
bill is ¢1113.7 and ¢1395.0, respectively, which implies that the revenue of the prosumers has been enhanced by 93.71 % whereas the bill of
the consumers has been decreased by 20.16 %. The aforementioned
results confirm the effectiveness of the designed cooperative game theory based P2P energy trading scheme in getting significant revenue for
the procumers and considerable bill saving for the consumers.
It is indicated from the aforementioned result that, employing P2P
energy trading in the CMG provides the procumers ability to increase the
revenue and reduces the electricity bills of the consumers. In addition,
P2P energy trading is more beneficial when the households have both
energy storage and RESs. As for the households who are able only to
generate renewable energy without having capability to store energy, it
may not be beneficial in terms of financial gains. The main reason is that
the SHs integrated with battery storage systems utilize their stored energy primarily to meet their own consumption and sell the surplus of
that energy to other peers or the utility. Therefore, if the households
install solar system, it is recommended to have a BESS.
The circular graph depicted in Fig. 14 introduces a directed graph of
the all users in the neighborhood area at a specific time interval during
the day. This graph presents how that peers interact with each other
through the best effective path regarding the energy production and
demand. Besides, it shows the transfer of energy within the CMG i.e.
from prosumers to consumers and the main grid to consumers. Through
this figure, the aggregator and community's peers are able to recognize
the details of the sold energy and subsequently the gained profit. It is
clear from the figure that, for the energy sharing within the CMG, at a
given time interval, one or more of following four operating conditions
may be conducted: some households may satisfied their internal load
demand, others export their surplus energy to the main grid, while
others request energy from the main grid or other peers in the
community.
Although the proposed CEMS has the ability to provide significant
savings for network households, increase utilization of the energy
generated by their distributed rooftop solar PVs, reduce the electricity
bills, and create an advantageous approach for prosumers and customers, it includes some shortcomings. The main shortcomings are
related to the followings: the proposed pricing mechanism of the P2P
energy exchange does not consider optimization of the function used to
calculate trading price R P2P . In addition, the EVs charging has been
considered as extra load to power system, however, the EVs can be
employed as energy storage; accordingly the proposed management

Fig. 14. Energy flow within the community microgrid during P2P energy trading.

energy, that was exchanged between peers during P2P trading, to the
main grid assuming there are no P2P trading among the households (this
can be called Grid-only operating condition assumption), shown in
Fig. 13(a) and (b) in red lines. The second comparison has been conducted between the cost of the electricity that purchased by the consumers under the P2P energy trading (shown in Fig. 13(a) and (b) in
black lines) and that paid when importing this amount of deficit energy
from the main grid only (Grid-only operating condition assumption),
shown in Fig. 13(a) and (b) in blue lines. Numerical conclusion is given
in Table 9, it is evident from Fig. 13 and the table that, in the reference
and proposed scenarios, the prosumers get more revenue and the customers pay less electricity bills. Table 9 displays that, in the reference
scenario, the daily revenue obtained is ¢865.28 and ¢426.68 in case of
P2P trading and grid-only assumption, respectively. Whereas, the daily
paid electricity bill is ¢865.28 and ¢1066.2, respectively. Meaning that,
the revenue of the prosumers has been increased by 102.79 %, whereas
16

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

18.39
41.95
82.2

–
64.61
–

9.86
40.81
65.41

− 17.91
12.43
20.85

Smart
home

Reference case (¢)

Proposed case

Procumer
(¢)

Consumer
(¢)

Procumer
(¢)

Consumer
(¢)

SH 1
SH 2
SH 3

143.8
–
–

–
157.0
669.4

341.5
21.77
–

–
–
553

Enhancement
(%)
137.48
113.87
17.39

system should be developed to not only accommodate EVs charging but
also considers them as energy supplies when it is required. Finally, the
proposed CEMS depends on a static game theory model while a dynamic
game theory model, in which all peers could time-dependently observe
strategies of each other and the state of the main grid as well to
dynamically determine trading pairs, can be taken into consideration.

17.69
50.95

• Implementing a practical Peer-to-Peer (P2P) energy trading
approach based on a cooperative game theory-based model which
simultaneously confirms energy demand-based best priority and
considers the PV systems, battery energy storage systems and EVs
that are integrated to the community microgrid.
• Addressing the energy transactions among the neighborhood community peers under modified mid-market rate pricing scheme for
P2P energy trading while those between the community peers and
the utility grid are addressed under dynamic pricing scheme that is
prescribed by the main grid.
• Simultaneously managing all possible operating conditions of all
smart homes within the community i.e. purchasing energy from the
utility grid, supplying energy to the utility grid, sharing energy under
P2P trading.

69.51

Additionally, the considered model is solved under time-of-use (ToU)
dynamic tariffs using seagull optimization algorithm. The optimization
algorithm is used to relax the CMIP to a linear programming (during
relaxation process) for providing optimal rational solutions which are
approximated later to the best feasible optimal solutions through
rounding scheme. Comparing to the reference case, the results reported
in this study yields the followings: Implementation of the proposed
incentive-based P2P energy trade resulting in cost savings of 72.21 %,
reduction in grid dependency by 41.95 %, and covering 82.2 % of the
demand from distributed local resources within the community. In
addition, for the overall community, the proposed P2P energy trading
allows more revenue and less bill cost comparing to the case when
selling the excess power to the main grid only and purchasing the
demanded energy from it without involving in neighborhood energy
sharing scheme. The revenue in case of selling energy among the peers
(P2P trade) and energy sold to the grid-only are 28.71 % and 34.74 %,
respectively, whereas the bill reductions are 28.71 % and 30.55 % in
case of purchasing the demanded energy from the other peers within the
community (P2P trade) and purchased it from the grid-only, respectively. Overall, the findings of this study show that all households,
whatever the assets they have (even solar PV and/or battery storage

22.29

146.18

7.09

54.06

87.78

30.48

63.08

173.95

18.13
10.91
–

93.32
28.93

30.87

51.24

14.4

34.86

13.02
20.41
102.52
59.54
22.00

33.8

19.63
25.39
30.57

34.48

In this research, a cooperative game theory with a constrained
mixed-integer optimization model has been implemented for coordinated residential load scheduling and a peer-to-peer (P2P) energy
management and exchange within a local grid-connected microgrid. The
proposed Community Energy Management System (CEMS) is designed
aiming at minimizing the electricity cost for each household within the
community microgrid, enhancing the self-consumption of the renewable
sources, and maximizing the revenue from sharing energy among the
neighborhoods. This CEMS has the following features:

1st smart
home
2nd smart
home
3rd smart
home
Community

18.04

22.43

31.57

14.8

36.57

27.65

6. Conclusion

Selfconsumption
(%)

Power
supplied by
the 1st SH
(Kw)

Table 8
Electricity bill comparison under the reference and the proposed operating
cases.

Grid
dependency
(%)
Power
supplied by
the grid (Kw)
Power
supplied by
the 2nd SH
(Kw)
Power
supplied by
the 1st SH
(Kw)

Reference case
Household

Table 7
Summary results of the analysis of energy sharing among the community peers.

Proposed case

Power
supplied by
the 2nd SH
(Kw)

Power
supplied by
the grid (Kw)

Grid
dependency
(%)

Selfconsumption
(%)

Reduction in
grid dependency
(%)

Change in selfconsumption (%)

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

17

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311

Table 9
Comparison between sharing energy via P2P trading and dealing with grid only for the overall community (for assumption).
Operation assumption
Reference case (¢)
Proposed case (¢)
a

Energy sharing among the peers (P2P trading)

Energy sharing with the grid (grid-only)

Selling

Purchasing

Selling

Purchasing

865.28
1113.7

865.28
1113.7

426.68
575.73

1066.2
1395.0

Revenue enhancement (%)a

Bill reduction (%)a

102.79
93.44

18.84
20.16

These calculations are attributed to the cost of grid-only scenario (the assumed operating condition).

systems), have chance to reduce their daily electricity costs via fostering
solar energy usage within the local community. Also economic benefits
were obtained at the community and home levels.
For future work, as EVs charging adds up extra load to distribution
systems, however, the EVs represent energy storage; so it is of interest to
develop the proposed management system to not only accommodate EVs
charging but also considers them as energy supplies when it is needed. In
addition, dynamic game model, in which all peers could timedependently observe strategies of each other and the state of the main
grid as well to dynamically determine trading pairs, will be considered.
Finally, the pricing mechanism of the P2P energy exchange can be
enhanced via optimizing the function used to calculate trading price
R P2P .

[6] M.K. Saraji, D. Streimikiene, Challenges to the low carbon energy transition: a
systematic literature review and research agend, Energ. Strat. Rev. 49 (2023)
101163, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esr.2023.101163.
[7] M.K. Saraji, D. Streimikiene, Challenges to the low carbon energy transition: a
systematic literature review and research agenda, Energ. Strat. Rev. 49 (2023)
101163, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esr.2023.101163.
[8] Lv Yongjun, Transitioning to sustainable energy: opportunities, challenges, and the
potential of blockchain technology, Front. Energy Res. 11 (2023) 1258044,
https://doi.org/10.3389/fenrg.2023.1258044.
[9] X. Kong, S. Zhang, B. Sun, Q. Yang, S. Li, S. Zhu, Research on home energy
management method for demand response based on chance-constrained
programming, Energies 13 (2020) 2790.
[10] R. Hemmati, Technical and economic analysis of home energy management system
incorporating small-scale wind turbine and battery energy storage system, J. Clean.
Prod. 159 (2017) 106–118.
[11] R. Hemmati, H. Saboori, Stochastic optimal battery storage sizing and scheduling
in home energy management systems equipped with solar photovoltaic panels,
Energ. Buildings 152 (2017) 290–300.
[12] M. Gomez-Gonzalez, J.C. Hernandez, D. Vera, F. Jurado, Optimal sizing and power
schedule in PV household-prosumers for improving PV self-consumption and
providing frequency containment reserve, Energy 191 (2020) 116554, https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.energy.2019.116554.
[13] M.M.U. Rashid, F. Granelli, M.A. Hossain, M.S. Alam, F.S. Al-Ismail, A.
K. Karmaker, et al., Development of home energy management scheme for a smart
grid community, Energies 13 (17) (2020) 4288.
[14] Effective Hybrid Search Technique Based Constraint Mixed-Integer Programming
for Smart Home Residential Load Scheduling.
[15] B. Celik, R. Roche, D. Bouquain, A. Miraoui, Coordinated energy management
using agents in neighborhood areas with RES and storage, in: IEEE International
Energy Conference (ENERGYCON), 2016, pp. 1–6, https://doi.org/10.1109/
ENERGYCON.2016.7514081.
[16] Sweta Malik, Maeve Duffy, Subhasis Thakur, Barry Hayes, John Breslin, A prioritybased approach for peer-to-peer energy trading using cooperative game theory in
local energy community, Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 137 (2022) 107865.
[17] M. Khojasteh, P. Faria, L. Gomes, Z. Vale, Energy trading strategy of community
shared energy storage, Electr. Eng. 106 (2024) 3415–3434, https://doi.org/
10.1007/s00202-023-02163-0.
[18] M. Ostadijafari, A. Dubey, N. Yu, Linearized price-responsive HVAC controller for
optimal scheduling of smart building loads, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 11 (4) (2020)
3131–3145.
[19] R. Schollmeier, A definition of peer-to-peer networking for the classification of
peer to-peer architectures and applications, in: Proc of the International
Conference on Peer to-Peer Computing, Linkoping, Sweden, 2001, pp. 101–102.
[20] S. Kerscher, P. Arboleya, The key role of aggregators in the energy transition under
the latest European regulatory framework, Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 134
(2022) 107361, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2021.107361.
[21] Marwa Mahmoud Hamed, A. El-Tayeb, I. Moukhtar, Adel Z. El-Dein, Esam
H. Abdelhameed, “A review on recent key technologies of lithium-ion battery
thermal management: external cooling systems”, results, Engineering 16 (2022)
100703, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2022.100703.
[22] P. Bajpai, S. Singh, R. Kumar, Integration of Li-Ion Battery Energy Storage System
in Smart Homes for Renewable Energy Management, International Conference on
Power, Energy and Control Systems (ICPECS), 2019, https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICPECS.2019.9073262.
[23] Michael Blonsky, Prateek Munankarmi, Sivasathya Balamuruga, Incorporating
Residential Smart Electric Vehicle Charging in Home Energy Management System,
Preprint. Golden, CO: National Renewable Energy Laboratory. NREL/CP-5D0078540. https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy21osti/78540.pdf, 2021.
[24] Esam H. Abdelhameed, Samah Abdelraheem, Yehia Sayed Mohamed, Ahmed
A. Zaki Diab, Effective hybrid search technique based constraint mixed-integer
programming for smart home residential load scheduling, Sci. Rep. 13 (2023)
21870, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48717-x.
[25] Hydro Ottawa Holding Inc. https://hydroottawa.com/en/accounts-services/acco
unts/time-use accessed Jan. 25, 2024.
[26] Sweta Malik, Subhasis Thakur, Maeve Duffy, John G. Breslin, Comparative double
auction approach for peer-to-peer energy trading on multiple microgrids, Smart
Grids Sustain. Energy 8 (4) (2023) 21.
[27] Alexander Bogensperger, Joachim Ferstl, Yu. Ying, Comparison of pricing
mechanisms in peer-to-peer energy communities, in: 12th. Internationale
Energiewirtschaftstagung (IEWT), 2021.
[28] Chao Long, et al.. Peer-to-Peer Energy Trading In a Microgrid, UK: School of
Engineering, Cardiff University, Cardiff CF24 3AA, 2018.

CRediT authorship contribution statement
Esam H. Abdelhameed: Writing – review & editing, Validation,
Supervision, Software, Project administration, Methodology, Formal
analysis, Conceptualization. Samah Abdelraheem: Writing – original
draft, Validation, Software, Methodology, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Yehia Sayed Mohamed: Supervision, Resources, Project
administration. Mohammed Abouheaf: Writing – review & editing,
Project administration, Methodology, Formal analysis. Samy A. Marey:
Writing – review & editing, Resources, Project administration, Funding
acquisition. Ahmed A. Zaki Diab: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Methodology, Formal analysis.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.
Data availability
All data generated or analyzed during this study are included in this
published article.
Acknowledgements
This research was funded by Researchers Supporting Project number
(RSPD2024R752), King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
References
[1] M.M.U. Rashid, M.A. Alotaibi, A.H. Chowdhury, M. Rahman, M.S. Alam, M.
A. Hossain, M.A. Abido, Home energy management for community microgrids
using optimal power sharing algorithm, Energies 14 (4) (2021) 1060, https://doi.
org/10.3390/en14041060.
[2] Melissa Eklund, Kaveh Khalilpour, Alexey Voinov, M.J. Hossai, Understanding the
community in community microgrids: a conceptual framework for better decisionmaking, Energy Res. Soc. Sci. 104 (2023) 103260, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
erss.2023.10326.
[3] Luigi Martirano, Sara Rotondo, Mostafa Kermani, Ferdinando Massarella,
Roberto Gravina, Power sharing model for energy communities of buildings, IEEE
Trans. Ind. Appl. 57 (1) (2021) 170–178, https://doi.org/10.1109/
TIA.2020.3036015.
[4] B. Lokeshgupta, K. Ravivarma, Coordinated smart home energy sharing with a
centralized neighbourhood energy management, Sustain. Cities Soc. 96 (2023)
104642, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scs.2023.104642.
[5] K. Ravivarma, B. Lokeshgupta, A peer-to-peer energy trading model for community
microgrids with energy management, Peer-to-Peer Netw. Appl. 17 (2024)
2538–2554, https://doi.org/10.1007/s12083-024-01722-x.

18

E.H. Abdelhameed et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 99 (2024) 113311
energy storage and distributed generation, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 7 (6) (2016)
2736–2747.
[34] G. Dhiman, V. Kumar, Seagull optimization algorithm: theory and its applications
for large-scale industrial engineering problems, Knowl.-Based Syst. 165 (2019)
169–196, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2018.11.024.
[35] V. Kumar, D. Kumar, M. Kaur, Dilbag Singh, Sahar Ahmed, H. Alshazly, A novel
binary seagull optimizer and its application to feature selection problem, IEEE
Access 9 (2021), https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3098642.
[36] A. Subramanian, J. Raman, Modified seagull optimization algorithm based MPPT
for augmented performance of photovoltaic solar energy systems, Automatika 63
(1) (2022) 1–15, https://doi.org/10.1080/00051144.2021.1997253.
[37] Jiao Wang, Yan Li, Hu Gang, Hybrid seagull optimization algorithm and its
engineering application integrating Yin–Yang Pair idea, Eng. Comput. 38 (2022)
2821–2857, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00366-021-01508-2.

[29] Samuel Burer, Adam N. Letchford, Non-convex mixed-integer nonlinear
programming: a survey (2012), Surveys Operat. Res. Manag. Sci. 17 (2) (2012)
97–106, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sorms.2012.08.001.
[30] B. Vand, R. Ruusu, A. Hasan, B.M. Delgado, Optimal management of energy
sharing in a community of buildings using a model predictive control, Energ.
Conver. Manage. 239 (2021) 114178, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
enconman.2021.114178.
[31] Georgios Chalkiadakis, Edith Elkind, Michael Wooldridge, Computational Aspects
of Cooperative Game Theory, Springer Nature, 2022.
[32] Raquel Salcedo-Diaz, J. Ruben Ruiz-Femenia, Adrian Amat-Bernabeu, Jose
A. Caballero, A cooperative game strategy for designing sustainable supply chains
under the emissions trading system, J. Clean. Prod. 285 (2021) 124845.
[33] N.G. Paterakis, O. Erdinç, I.N. Pappi, A.G. Bakirtzis, J.P. Catalão, Coordinated
operation of a neighborhood of smart households comprising electric vehicles,

19

