Energy 306 (2024) 132458

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Energy
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/energy

Expediting battery investment returns for residential customers utilising
spot price-aware local energy exchanges
Liaqat Ali a , M. Imran Azim b,*, Jan Peters c , Ehsan Pashajavid a
a

Curtin University, Bentley Campus, WA 6102, Australia
Monash University, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia
c
University of Technology and Economics, Berlin, 10318, Germany
b

A R T I C L E I N F O

A B S T R A C T

Handling editor: Henrik Lund

This paper presents a local energy exchange mechanism to benefit residential customers and retailers under
variable wholesale market spot prices. To do so, a peer-to-peer (P2P) trading-enabled local energy market (LEM)
is proposed to facilitate frequent energy transactions among participants. The proposed LEM mechanism considers market operational constraints and maximises electricity cost reductions. Further, the proposed LEM
optimises the customers’ investment return for battery energy storage systems (BESSs) and minimises retailers’
financial losses during higher spot prices in the wholesale market. Finally, a case study is demonstrated using
real-world Australian data in which P2P trading is performed between interested buyers and sellers. Two scenarios with high and low wholesale market spot prices are analysed comprehensively considering five metrics
such as solar-to-spot (STS); solar-to-load (STL); forward buy contract (FBC)-to-load (FBC-L); spot-to-load (Short);
and FBC-to-spot (Long). The simulation results reveal that the customers reap substantial benefits from the
proposed LEM in contrast with business-as-usual (BAU), allowing them to expedite BESS investment returns.
Also, the proposed LEM helps a retailer decrease the effect of higher spot prices by reducing its unexpected
financial losses while improving self-consumption and self-sufficiency in the local energy network.

Keywords:
Local energy market
Peer-to-peer trading
Battery investment returns
Spot prices
Retailer

1. Introduction
The advent of the local energy market (LEM) model has encouraged
consumers, retailers, and network operators to refine the existing poolempowered demand and supply matching mechanism to facilitate them
buying and selling clean energy at their favoured prices at electricity
distribution levels [1]. This can also lead to the flow of clean energy,
mobilised by distributed energy resources (DERs), to the electricity
network, following respective operational constraints. Due to its flexible
and decentralised functioning facets, LEM is a potential substitute for
the feed-in-tariff (FiT) scheme [2]. Any unmet volumes in the LEM can
also be fed back into the electricity network via FiT. Some manifest
upsides of LEM include bilateral settlements among customers, adjustable market operation, protected and unequivocal transaction execution, incorporating the interests of retailers and operators, electricity
expense reduction, export/import abatement to/from the distribution
grid, and strengthening social bonding among customers [3].
Peer-to-peer (P2P) trading is one of the incredible attributes of a LEM
that essentially permits consumers (customers without local generation)

and prosumers (customers with local generation) to negotiate their energy quantities and prices in a decentralised fashion, incorporating retailers and network operators [4]. Since P2P energy trading in the LEM is
governed by exchanging necessary information to organise the trading
platform setup and decision-forming strategy, a decentralised,
privacy-preserving, and protected information-sharing platform can
find its application in the framework, as discussed in Ref. [5].
Electricity cost savings is one of the primary focuses of P2P trading
decisions, as it can motivate customers to join the LEM framework [6].
This fact is admitted in Ref. [7], which proposes a robust P2P strategic
mechanism to guarantee a reduction in electricity costs. The arrangement of P2P trading prices between time-of-use (ToU) and FiT rates to
benefit LEM customers significantly is suggested in Ref. [8]. A detailed
understanding of the pricing model to arrange P2P transactions is
demonstrated in Ref. [9]. Innovative decision-making, a P2P trading
pricing model, and agent-based collaboration are reported in Ref. [10].
A similar model is also proposed in Ref. [11], considering different
market structures and tariff systems. Besides, a cost-benefit analysis of
participating customers is conducted in Ref. [12] to promote P2P

* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: imran.azim@monash.edu (M.I. Azim).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2024.132458
Received 13 December 2023; Received in revised form 28 May 2024; Accepted 13 July 2024
Available online 17 July 2024
0360-5442/© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458

c. Technical and infrastructure issues

exchanges. A P2P market operating strategy is proposed in Ref. [13] to
organise cost reduction and profit maximisation for customers. A predictive optimisation-assisted P2P trading decision technique is also
developed in Ref. [14] to reduce the energy bills of LEM customers by
formulating P2P trading. Finally, the authors in Ref. [15] assess the cost
reduction through P2P trading from a social point of view.
The adoption of battery energy storage systems (BESSs) in LEM
models is also noticeable to bring flexibility and spur the proliferation of
electricity cost savings. To this end, several studies also incorporate
BESSs while formulating local energy exchanges. For instance, combined solar photovoltaic (PV) system- and BESS-managed P2P trading is
proposed in Ref. [16]. A price mechanism, by dint of robust optimisation, is developed in Ref. [17] to organise P2P trading. The beneficial
aspect of using BESS as a backup supply during P2P trading is also
investigated in Ref. [18]. In addition, the authors in Ref. [19] formulate
a trading market embedded with a shared BESS to support P2P trading.
A similar market is proposed in Ref. [20], complying with the transactive market policy. A shared BESS is also utilised in Ref. [21] to design
a bargaining-based P2P trading model. Finally, multi-stage BESS-incorporated P2P energy management is proposed in Ref. [22], which cuts
down on the electricity costs of LEM customers.
Some recent studies have also discussed the scope of integrating
retailers and network operators in the LEM while P2P trading choices
are executed to buy and sell energy. Such schemes are vital because they
are an essential part of the energy market, and thus, a practical LEM
model should consider their financial interests [23]. The authors in
Ref. [24] propose a win-win LEM strategy to benefit customers, retailers,
and network operators exercising P2P energy exchanges. Aggregated
prosumers-based retailer transition is proposed in Ref. [25] for futuristic
trading markets. A utility service provider-aware P2P trading strategy is
structured in Ref. [26], considering market elasticity. Regulated
utility-governed P2P trading is developed on a cloud-based platform in
Ref. [27] by ensuring transparency. A dual-stage P2P trading model is
designed in Ref. [28] with the participation of the utility. Finally, an
active network operator’s management-integrated P2P trading is
modelled in Ref. [29].

Need for bidirectional flows: LEMs require electricity and information to flow in both directions, unlike the current unidirectional flow
model, necessitating significant changes to network operations and
infrastructure.
Immature and costly technologies: The technologies essential for
LEMs, such as smart meters and other DERs, are still developing and
expensive to deploy on a large scale.
Interoperability and communication: Ensuring that different systems can work together seamlessly and managing numerous communication points are critical challenges that demand a robust information
and communication technology (ICT) infrastructure.
d. Integration with Existing Markets
Integrating LEMs with existing market structures, such as wholesale
and ancillary services markets, is complex. This involves harmonising
the decentralised nature of LEMs with the centralised operations of
wholesale markets, enabling LEMs to provide necessary support services
like frequency regulation and dealing with the variability of renewable
energy sources. Additionally, there are concerns about market power
imbalances and potential abuses, as well as the need for extensive coordination among various stakeholders, including grid operators, regulatory bodies, market participants, and technology providers, to ensure
smooth operations and regulatory adherence.
e. Social and Behavioural Barriers
Resistance from end-users: The success of LEMs depends heavily
on active participation from end-users, many of whom are resistant to
change due to distrust or a lack of awareness.
Community involvement: Securing the support of local stakeholders and communities is vital for overcoming resistance and ensuring
the successful implementation of LEMs.
f. Data Privacy and Security

1.1. Limitation and drawbacks

The deployment of LEMs involves substantial data exchange among
various participants, including consumers, producers, and grid operators. This exchange includes sensitive information such as energy usage
patterns, pricing details, personal consumer information, and grid
operation data. This data’s large volume and sensitivity create significant concerns regarding data privacy and cybersecurity. These challenges underscore the complexity of implementing LEMs, necessitating
coordinated efforts across regulatory, technical, economic, and social
dimensions to achieve successful and broad adoption. Addressing such
gaps properly requires conducting extensive research studies.

Several limitations and drawbacks of current approaches are highlighted in the existing literature, as reported in Refs. [30–38], in regard
to implementing and operating LEMs. The key limitations and drawbacks are outlined as follows.
a. Economic Barriers
High initial costs: The financial outlay required for the technologies
enabling end-user participation in LEMs is substantial, primarily due to
their current immaturity.
Market limitations: High initial capital requirements, perceived
risks, and low profitability margins present significant economic obstacles to the development of LEMs.

1.2. Identified approaches and mechanisms
Several approaches and mechanisms based on recent studies are
summarised current research and practices as follows [39–44].

b. Regulatory and policy challenges

a. Incentive Programs

Lack of specific legislation: There is a notable absence of legislation and regulatory frameworks tailored to the roles and activities of
distribution system operators (DSOs) in the context of LEMs, which
poses significant implementation hurdles.
Misalignment with existing frameworks: Current regulatory systems are primarily designed for large, centralised electricity providers,
making it difficult to adapt them to the decentralised nature of LEMs.
Adjusting these frameworks is a complex and lengthy process.
Unclear roles and responsibilities: The present regulatory landscape does not clearly define the roles and responsibilities of the various
stakeholders, leading to uncertainty and increased risk.

Demand Response Programs: Customers are incentivised to reduce
or shift their energy usage during peak times, receiving financial benefits or credits in return.
Renewable Energy Incentives: Subsidies or rebates for installing
renewable energy systems, which can help lower-income customers
afford these technologies and participate more fully in the LEM.
b. Dynamic Pricing Models
ToU Pricing: Encourages customers to shift their consumption to off2

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458

Fig. 1. Proposed LEM trading model with set of customers.

1.3. Contributions

peak times when electricity is cheaper, benefiting those who can be
flexible with their energy usage.
Real-time Pricing (RTP): Prices are adjusted based on real-time
demand and supply, allowing consumers to benefit from lower prices
during periods of low demand.
P2P Trading Platforms: These platforms enable direct energy
trading between consumers and prosumers, allowing those with excess
generation capacity (like rooftop solar PV panels) to sell electricity to
others, promoting equitable financial benefits.
Aggregation Services (Virtual Power Plants): Aggregate the capacity of multiple small-scale energy producers and consumers, allowing
them to participate in the energy market as a single entity, thus sharing
the economic benefits more evenly among participants.

Despite the significance of the above-mentioned studies, they are
either customer-centric (mostly) or retailer/network operator-centric
(comparatively few), which opens the room for possible extension. As
such, this paper proposes a spot price-aware local energy exchange
model to simultaneously integrate customers, retailers, and network
operators in the LEM. This is especially critical in nations like Australia,
where the wholesale national electricity market (NEM) spot prices have
experienced extreme volatility in recent years [45], which could hamper
retailers’ ability to make profits from customers and has led to many
cases of insolvencies, specifically amongst smaller retailers, thereby
reducing competition [46]. In addition, this paper assesses the LEM by
taking BESS investment returns into account to make sure that the P2P
uses of BESS do not degrade their life cycles contrasting to
business-as-usual (BAU). To this end, the primary contributions of this
paper are listed as follows.

c. Equity-Based Participation Models
Tiered Participation Levels: Different entry points for participation
are based on customer profiles, ensuring that low-income or less technologically equipped households can still benefit from the LEM.
Community Energy Projects: Collective ownership models where a
community invests in shared renewable energy projects and distributes
the benefits among all members, including those without their own
energy assets.

● A LEM framework is developed to facilitate P2P trading amongst
customers in the presence of a network operator, and a retailer with
the purpose of providing cost savings to customers without jeopardising stakeholders’ margins.
● The impact of the proposed trading scheme on the retailer’s energy
exchange in an unstable wholesale market is also examined. The
energy exchange of the retailer is rationalised based on five metrics
to mimic the Australian market strategy, which consist of solar-tospot (STS); solar-to-load (STL); forward buy contract (FBC)-to-load
(FBC-L); spot-to-load (Short); and FBC-to-spot (Long).
● Finally, a thorough analysis is conducted to figure out the economic
performance of the LEM with regard to expediting battery investment returns compared to BAU.

d. Policy and Regulatory Support
Regulatory Measures: Policies that mandate fair access to LEMs and
require market operators to design mechanisms that ensure equity, such
as minimum participation quotas for low-income households or subsidised rates for vulnerable populations.
e. Technological Solutions

The remaining part of this paper is organised as follows. The system
model of the LEM is briefly described in Section 2. Energy procurement
scenarios for retailers and BESS investment metrics are reviewed in
Section 3 and Section 4, respectively. The market solution methodology
is formulated in the following section (Section 5). Section 6 illustrates
the results and analysis. Finally, the paper is concluded in Section 7.

Smart Metering and Advanced Analytics: Enable precise tracking
of consumption and generation, allowing for tailored pricing and incentives that reflect individual customer profiles and usage patterns.
Blockchain Technology: Ensures transparent and secure transactions within the LEM, enabling trust and equitable benefit distribution
through immutable and verifiable records.
3

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458

where all the customers are connected through two feeders under a
single distribution substation.
Furthermore, the following assumptions are used to analyse the
economic performance of solar PV and BESS: 3.3 kW/12 kWh BESS with
an investment cost of AU$13,000, 6 kW solar PV systems at the cost of
AU$5,500, 17 kWh daily loads, 24.78 % cycle and calendar degradation
of BESS at a 12 year period, 2 % annual rise of the grid electricity buy
rate, and battery installation at an AU$3,500 rebate.
2.1.2. P2P trading framework
An illustration of P2P energy exchange, for a given trading slot,
among a consumer and two prosumers using such a market platform is
shown in Fig. 2. Records of P2P transactions and data information are
kept permanently on the platform and can be retrieved at any time to
finalise financial deals. LEM enables customers to declare their sell and
buy offers repeatedly. For sellers and buyers to attain monetary gains,
they are advised to announce their energy exchange rates between FiT
and ToU prices. Also, customers are assumed to be provided with the
opportunity to hold their preferred trading rates before deciding to
replace them with updated ones. The energy exchange can be executed
in two steps: 1) trading with solar PV customers and consumers; 2)
trading with solar PV customers and BESS customers (if excess generation) or trading with consumers and BESS customers (if unmet demand).
Note that five sequential processes can be involved while using the energy produced by a solar PV system: 1) feeding behind-the-meter demand; 2) charging behind-the-meter BESS; 3) feeding front-of-meter of
other customers’ demand from excess solar; 4) charging front-of-meter
other customers’ BESSs; and 5) selling back to the grid. Nevertheless,
all customers (both solar PV customers and consumers) are assumed to
be registered with a single retailer, who is assumed to be connected with
the network operator to comply with electricity distribution rules and
regulations for billing purposes.

Fig. 2. An example of P2P trading in the LEM.

2. System model
In the proposed model, PV systems and residential BESSs are utilised
as the primary sources of renewable energy. Solar PV panels were
chosen for their efficiency in converting sunlight into electricity, making
them an ideal solution for residential energy generation. These PV systems were installed in residential settings to harness solar power
throughout the day. Additionally, we integrated residential BESSs to
complement the solar PVs. These BESSs store excess energy generated
during peak sunlight hours, allowing for energy use during non-sunny
periods or peak demand times. This combination not only enhances
energy self-sufficiency for residential customers but also facilitates energy trading by enabling the storage and subsequent distribution of
surplus energy. The use of solar PVs and residential batteries in our
study highlights a sustainable approach to energy management, reduces
reliance on non-renewable energy sources, and supports the transition to
a more resilient and decentralised energy grid.

2.1.3. Tariff parameters for trading
The LEM model’s tariff structure includes energy price, FiT, network
fee, renewable energy taxes, and retailer margin in the Australian
context [48]. Table 1 displays the tariff rates (ToU) for the network
operator, retailer, cost of the LEM platform, and energy sell and buy
prices for both BAU and LEM. The P2P transaction charge ensures that
participants gain the most possible benefit by being applied each time
P2P trading is done. In BAU, the energy price is assumed to be fixed,
while in P2P trading, the price varies and is determined by the sell and
buy attempts made by each customer. Table I displays a P2P energy
trading example with tariff rates. The LEM platform charges 0.75 c/kWh
as an operational cost.
ToU tariffs are applied to maximise the advantages of P2P trading. In
BAU, the energy price is assumed to be fixed, while in P2P trading, the
energy price varies and is determined by the selling and buying orders
made by the customers. Specially, in the LEM, the tariff’s energy price
component is optimised to lower the per-unit cost, allowing customers to
profit financially without jeopardising the margins of the retailer and
the network operator. Although the LEM platform involves P2P transaction charge, the total cost is always lower than in BAU. Because of the
soaring energy price relative to the lower FiT rate during peak and
shoulder times, LEM customers are expected to receive greater benefits.
Upon the completion of all transactions in the LEM, the retailer is
notified to settle periodic billings.

2.1. Model key assumptions & parameters
2.1.1. Trading group assumptions
The LEM system contains consumers, prosumers, a retailer, and a
network operator. Energy demand, solar PV production, and storage
status of LEM customers are assumed to be forecasted and continuously
tracked by a forward-facing market platform. The system comprises a set
of 100 residential customers, comprising 60 consumers, 20 prosumers
with solar PV systems and BESSs, and 20 prosumers with only solar PV
systems. The trading mechanism uses the imposed tariff rates of a
retailer and is assumed to be managed by a network operator under a
distribution substation. The case study, demonstrated in Section VI,
considers real load and solar PV profiles for all 100 customers over a
course of 24 h. The meter import and export data utilised for the
simulation is sourced from real-world prosumers and consumers. The
data set has been published by AusGrid, the distribution network
operator in Sydney and other parts of New South Wales, Australia [47].
This approach ensures the simulation is based on realistic energy requirements for Australian residents and actual rooftop solar PV generation curves in New South Wales. The system model is shown in Fig. 1,

3. Energy procurement of retailers
Retailers can be at risk of wholesale price increases due to inconsistent evening peak demand brought on by household consumption and
the decreasing output of solar PV. As more high-power and smart devices are electrified, it is getting increasingly challenging to estimate
residential demand. Retailers must consequently buy energy on the spot
market to handle peak loads, which can have undesirable results as

Fig. 3. Business as usual energy supply process in the NEM.
4

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458

swap, a fixed strike price is agreed upon, usually the estimated middle
value of spot prices. In this instance, if the wholesale spot price outpaces
the CFD strike price, the difference is compensated by the generator to
the retailer. If the wholesale spot price is lower than the CFD strike price,
the retailer recommends the difference to the generator. The retailer
agrees with customers to supply energy at a fixed price and to buy the
entire energy exported by the DERs at an invariable FiT rate [49].
Uncertainty in residential demand can result in periods of inaccurate
hedging, which are classified as short and long periods. Short periods
occur when not enough energy has not been procured in FBCs with a
view to satisfying the actual demand, whereas lengthy periods happen
when the retailer has bought too much energy. To handle fluctuations in
spot prices, most of the energy is bought through FBCs. The remaining
energy is bought and sold at the wholesale spot market, which can
experience high prices during any investigation period. In addition, a
retailer also buys energy at a FiT rate and sells it to customers at an
increased value. The return of the FiT is typically passed on to prosumers. Nonetheless, with high energy prices and low FiT rates, a
retailer attains monetary gains from buying at FiT and selling at higher
prices to consumers [50].
Five different metrics have been defined in the scope of this paper to
analyse the retailer’s energy trading position to capture the possible
impacts of volatile and elevated spot prices. The study cases are as follows: a) STL: Solar PV energy bought at the FiT rate and sold within the
community at the ToU rate; b) STS: Solar PV energy bought at the FiT
rate and sold to the spot market if the community does not consume the
energy; c) FBC-L: energy locked-in under FBCs, and sold at the ToU rate
to LEM customers; d) Long: energy locked-in under FBCs, and sold to the
wholesale spot market if the community does not consume as much
energy as predicted; e) Short: Energy is to be bought from the spot
market to meet part of community demand that could not be covered by
FBCs. The financial impact of the different positions is presented in
Table 2. Together, these five metrics and their scenarios summarise all
expenses and incomes the retailer has from trading energy. The impact
of the LEM is specifically strong on the long and short periods which can
have a substantial financial impact on the retailer depending on the
applicable spot prices.
This paper considers the performance of the retailer’s hedging strategies in wholesale markets over two seven-day periods before the
beginning of elevated prices in Q1 2022 and during price fluctuations
that the NEM experienced in Winter 2022 before the NEM suspension on
June 15, 2022 [51]. Using the average of quarter 1 (Q1) prices from
AEMO’s quarterly energy dynamics (QED), forward purchasing contract
prices are considered. AEMO has released spot prices for New South
Wales for the periods under investigation. Spot prices for a week from
March 12, 2022 to March 19, 2022 are utilised for modelling the first
study under low spot prices. The medians of the studied futures and spot
prices are 94.8 AU$/MWh and 131 AU$/MWh, respectively. Spot prices
for a week from June 7, 2022 to June 13, 2022, before the NEM suspension, are utilised for modelling the study under high spot prices. The
entire of quarter 2 (Q2) 2022 experienced an elevation in futures prices.
The medians of the studied futures and spot prices are 202 AU$/MWh
and 518.6 AU$/MWh, respectively [52].

Table 1
Tariff rates.
Retailer [48]
Daily supply (c/day)
FiT (c/kWh)
Network fee (c/kWh) [26]
RET (c/kWh) [28]
Retailer margin (c/kWh) [28]
Platform cost (c/kWh)
Energy/P2P price (c/kWh)
Tariff (c/kWh)

Peak (4pm–8pm)

Off-peak (8pm–4pm)

BAU

LEM

BAU

LEM

106.97
5.00
21.30
1.50
1.50
0
16.55
41.10

21.30
1.50
1.50
0.75
14.98
40.28

7.28
1.50
1.00
0
11.17
20.95

7.28
1.50
1.00
0.75
10.00
20.53

Table 2
Financial positions of retailer.
Metrics

Buying
price

Selling
price

Scenario

Financial
Impact

Comment

STL

FiT

Usual case

FiT

FiT lower
than grid buy
rate
Spot price
lower than
FiT (STS
(Low Spot))

Positive

STS

Grid
buy
rate
Spot
price

Negative

Spot price
higher than
FiT (STS
(High Spot))
FBC price
higher than
grid buy rate
(FBC-L (High
FBC))
FBC price
lower than
grid buy rate
(FBC-L (Low
FBC))
Spot price
higher than
grid buy rate
(Short (High
Spot))
Spot price
lower than
grid buy rate
(Short (Low
Spot))
Spot price
lower than
FBC price
(Long (Low
Spot))
Spot price
higher than
FBC price
(Long (High
Spot))

Positive

Frequent, as low
spot prices
coincide with
high solar
surplus
Infrequent as
spot price mostly
low when solar
surplus available
Infrequent, FBC
prices are
normally lower
than grid buy
rates
Usual case

FBC-L

Short

Long

FBC
Price

Spot
Price

FBC
Price

Grid
buy
rate

Grid
buy
rate

Spot
price

Negative

Positive

Negative

Frequent, as high
spot prices often
coincide with
high demand

Positive

Less frequent, as
low spot prices
rarely coincide
with high
demand
Frequent, as low
spot prices often
coincide with
low demand

Negative

Positive

Infrequent, as
high spot prices
rarely coincide
with low demand

4. BESS investment metrics

experienced during Q2 2022 in the Australian NEM. The high spot prices
during this period resulted from several important reasons, including
unpredicted demand caused by cold temperatures, reduced fossil fuelbased generation, high fuel prices, interconnection insufficiency, and
occasionally dropped renewable generations. Typically, retailers acquire most of their energy from generators through FBCs and act as a
mediator between generators and consumers, as displayed in Fig. 3. The
wholesale energy market serves as an alternative option in order to
harmonise any unexpected export or import of energy that deviates from
the forecasted volume. The retailer and generator enter into a contract
for difference (CFD), referring to either a cap or swap contract. CFD
creates price stability over the contract period for both parties. Under a

BESS forms an integral part of the LEM, unlocking flexibility in
supply and demand. Their ability to be remotely controlled and react to
changes within milliseconds enables LEM operators to balance demand
and supply effectively whilst increasing the use of local renewable energy. Challenges associated with their integration can be experienced
through technological hurdles such as different communication protocols used by different BESS manufactures and LEM platform operators,
as well as the economic viability of BESS. In this paper, the profitability
of residential BESS investments is determined using four different metrics of capital budgeting, namely the internal rate of return (IRR), net
5

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458

present value (NPV), payback period (PBP), and return on investment
(ROI) [53–56]. The definitions are as follows.

s.t.: price, power, BESS, and retailer constraints, as illustrated in (9-31)
buy

where Cn (|T|) and Csell
n (|T|) are defined as:

4.1. Net present value (NPV)
The net present cost of a BESS refers to the present value or the
distinctness between all the costs and revenues across the lifetime of a
BESS. The NPV of the investment considering the BESS’s lifetime is
determined as follows:
NPV =

T
∑

Ct
t − C0 , ∀t ∈ T
t=1 (1 + t)

Cbuy
n (|T|) =

|T| (
)
∑
buy
cbuy
n,t × Pn,t × Δt ; ∀n ∈ N

(4)

Csell
n (|T|) =

|T| (
)
∑
sell
csell
n,t × Pn,t × Δt ; ∀n ∈ N

(5)

t=1

t=1

buy

In (4) and (5), cn,t ,n ∈ Y, and csell
n,t ,n ∈ E, symbolise unit trading costs —
expressed in c/kWh. Besides, the buyers’ and sellers’ sets are indicated
by Y⊂N and E⊂N, respectively. In addition, purchasing and selling

(1)

where Ct is the cash flow over the course of t, and C0 is the commencing
investment. The discount rate i is assumed to be 10 %. The cash flow Ct
comprises the cost of operations and maintenance, BESS charging from
P2P trading, opportunity selling FiT, the income by BESS to LEM discharging, and the own load offsetting.

buy

amounts are represented by Pn,t , n ∈ Y, and Psell
n,t , n ∈ E, respectively.
These are computed for each time slot t ∈ T in (6) and (7), respectively.
dis(a)
lo
PV
+ Pcha(b)
; ∀n ∈ Y, ∀t ∈ T
Pbuy
n,t
n,t = Pn,t − Pn,t − Pn,t
cha(a)

PV
lo
Psell
n,t = Pn,t − Pn,t − Pn,t

4.2. Internal rate of return (IRR)

(6)

dis(b)

+ Pn,t ; ∀n ∈ E, ∀t ∈ T

(7)

PV
where Plo
n,t and Pn,t indicate load demand and PV power of customer

The discount rate, which causes a void (zero) NPV after the BESS has
reached the end of its lifetime, is called the IRR. The IRR is calculated by
setting the NPV to zero and solving the discount rate, i.

PV
PV
lo
n ∈ N. In (6), Plo
n,t > Pn,t ,∀t ∈ T. In contrast, Pn,t > Pn,t , ∀t ∈ T in (7). SelfBESS-charged power and peer BESS-charged power are symbolised by
cha(o)

cha(p)

dis(a)

dis(b)

Pn,t
and Pn,t , respectively. Whereas Pn,t and Pn,t refer to self
BESS-discharged power and peer BESS-discharged power, respectively.

4.3. BESS payback period (PBP)

5.1. Trading price constraints

PBP refers to the period necessary to recoup the initial cash investment made for BESS.

fit

Let cn,t and ctou
n,t — both are expressed in c/kWh — be FiT and ToU

4.4. Return on investment (ROI)

fit

tou
prices respectively, where cn,t < ctou
n,t . Note that cn,t comprises energy
eng
cn,t ,

nop
price
retailer margin cret
n,t , network operator margin cn,t , and
tar
renewable energy price cn,t (if applicable), such that:

ROI for BESS is calculated by subtracting the ongoing and initial
investment costs from the cash inflows expected over BESS’s lifetime.
The resulting figure is then divided by the initial investment. In this
context, each customer is indexed by n, where N represents the entire set
of customers.
xbat − cbat
ROIn = n bat n , ∀n ∈ N
cn

eng
ret
nop
tar
ctou
n,t = cn,t + cn,t + cn,t + cn,t ; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T

(8)

These ToU cost components are paid by each LEM customer n ∈ N as

sell
per BAU. Now, cbuy
n,t and cn,t are constrained in the LEM as described in (9)
and (10) to benefit both sellers and buyers at each time slot t ∈ T.

(2)

eng
tou
cbuy
n,t < cn,t < cn,t ; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T

bat
where xbat
n is the saving throughout the lifetime of a BESS, and cn is the
BESS cost, (e.g, capital and operational expenditures) incurred for each
customer n ∈ N.

(9)

fit
csell
n,t > cn,t ; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T

(10)

In order to incorporate the retailer and network operator in the LEM,

5. Proposed trading methodology

ret(l)

their LEM margins — denoted by cn,t

nop(l)

and cn,t

, respectively — should

nop
also be equal to/more than BAU margins cret
n,t and cn,t , respectively, such

The primary goal of the proposed LEM is to motivate residential
customers by adjusting the prices for buying and selling energy, which
will enable them to increase their return on investment. At the same
time, the system helps a retailer to minimise its financial losses in the
face of fluctuating spot prices in the market. It should be noted that
variable spot prices during certain periods can force retailers to buy
energy from the wholesale electricity market at a high rate, while still
selling to residential customers at the same fixed prices, resulting in
serious financial losses. The buying and selling costs of each LEM

that:
ret(l)

cn,t ≥ cret
n,t ; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T

(11)

nop(l)

(12)

cn,t

≥ cnop
n,t ; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T

5.2. Quantity trading constraints
buy(max)

buy

Let Pt

customer n ∈ N for a given period |T| are given by Cn (|T|) and Csell
n (|T|),
respectively. The ROI for |T| is denoted by ROIn (l, |T|). Also, let’s
consider Lret (l, |T|) be the financial losses of a retailer under a volatile
spot price in the electricity market, which is the difference between the
retailer’s total buying cost Cbuy− ret(tot) (l, |T|) and total selling cost
Csell− ret(tot) (l, |T|). Nevertheless, the objective function is expressed as
follows:
{ sell
}
ret
Cn (|T|) − Cbuy
(3)
n (|T|) + {ROIn (l, |T|)} − {L (l, |T|)} ; ∀n ∈ N

sell(min)

and Pt

be maximum buying and selling power
buy

limits defined for each time slot t ∈ T in the LEM. As such, Pn,t and Psell
n,t of
each LEM customer n ∈ N are bounded as follows:
buy(max)

Pbuy
n,t ≤ Pt

; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T

(13)

sell(max)
Psell
; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T
n,t ≤ Pt

(14)

For a given time slot t ∈ T, buying and selling amounts of LEM are
matched in (15). Any unmet amount is settled at either ToU price
6

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458

Fig. 4. a) Self sufficiency and b) self-consumption of LEM.

(greater buying amount) or FiT price (greater selling amount) outside
the LEM. The outside LEM settlements are also abided by the total
buy(tot)

buying and selling market amounts — signified by Pt
as captured in (16) and (17), respectively.
|Y|
∑
n=a

Pbuy
n,t =

( |Y|
∑
n=a

( |Y|
∑
n=a

|E|
∑
n=a

Pbuy
n,t −

Psell
n,t −

Psell
n,t ; ∀t ∈ T

|E|
∑
n=a
|E|
∑
n=a

sell(tot)

and Pt

dis
respectively. Besides, Pdis
n,t (b) is limited by peer-discharging rate Mn,t and
dis(ca)

(15)

)
Psell
n,t

buy(tot)

< Pt

; ∀t ∈ T

(16)

)
Pbuy
n,t

sell(tot)

< Pt

; ∀t ∈ T

(17)

fncha and fndis indicate BESS charging and discharging efficiencies,
cha(max)

and Mn

be minimum and maximum
dis(min)
Mn

dis(max)
Mn

BESS charging capacities, respectively. Also,
and
represent minimum and maximum BESS discharging capacities,
respectively. Self-BESS constraints are as demonstrated in (18)-(21):
))
(( dis
))
( (
Pn,t (a) × Δt
Sn,t = Sn,t− 1 + fncha Pcha
; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T
−
n,t (a) × Δt
fndis
max
Smin
; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T
n ≤ Sn,t ≤ Sn

(19)

(
)
cha(max)
Mcha(min)
≤ Pcha
n
n,t (a) × Δt ≤ Mn

(20)

(
)
dis(max)
Mdis(min)
≤ Pdis
; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T
n
n,t (a) × Δt ≤ Mn

(21)

(24)

(
) (
)
dis(max)
Mdis
× fndis − Pdis
n,t = En,t
n,t (a) × Δt ; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T

(25)

bat
xbat
n (l, |T|) > xn (|T|) ; ∀n ∈ N

(26)

ROIn (l, |T|) > ROIn (|T|) ; ∀n ∈ N

(27)

buy− ret

Let Pw,t

buy− ret

buy− ret

, Pf,t

, and Pfit,t

buy− ret

, FBC price cf,t

be the power a retailer buys from the

wholesale market, through the FBC, and from the residential customers
at spot price cw,t

buy− ret

Cbuy− ret(tot) (|T|) =

buy− ret

, respectively

buy− ret(tot)

(|T|) is calcu-

, and FiT rate cn,t

at a given time slot t ∈ t. The total buying cost C
lated as:

|T| [(
) (
)
∑
ret
ret
ret
ret
cbuy−
× Pbuy−
× Δt + cbuy−
× Pbuy−
× Δt
w,t
w,t
f ,t
f,t
t=1

(
)]
buy− ret
+ cfit
× Δt
n,t × Pfit,t
(28)

5.4. Peer BESS constraints

Similarly, the total selling cost Csell− ret(tot) (|T|) is calculated as:

cha(ca)
cha
Let peer-charging rate be Mcha
n,t , which limits Pn,t (b). Also, let Mn,t
PV(pk)

}
{
dis(ca)
dis
Pdis
; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T
n,t (b) × Δt = Mn,t , Mn,t

5.6. Retailer constraints

(18)

and Pn,t

(23)

Let xbat
n (l, |T|) be the saving of each LEM customer n ∈ N for a given
time period |T| over the BESS lifetime. xbat
n (l, |T|) and ROIn (l, |T|) are
required to be higher than xbat
(|T|)
and
ROI
n (|T|), such that:
n

Let Sn,t be the state-of-charge (SOC) of BESS — which is limited by
max
minimum and maximum SOCs denoted by Smin
n,t and Sn,t , respectively.
cha(min)

) (
)
(
cha(max)
Mcha
× fncha − Pcha
n,t = Mn,t
n,t (a) × Δt ; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T

5.5. BESS ROI constraints

5.3. Self BESS constraints

respectively. Also, let Mn

lo(pk)

BESS discharging capacity Mn,t . Pn,t indicates the peak time power
demand. Peer BESS constraints are captured in (22)-(25).
}
{
cha(ca)
cha
; ∀n ∈ N, ∀t ∈ T
(22)
Pcha
n,s (b) × Δt = Mn,t , Mn,t

—

be available BESS charging capacity and solar PV power,
7

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458

Fig. 5. Energy volume from a) & b) solar generation, and c) & d) FBC & spot.

Csell− ret(tot) (|T|) =

requirement, with the remaining 75.0 % of the demand being supplied
by the grid. In the LEM with P2P trading, the group’s self-sufficiency has
increased to 28.6 %, with the remaining 71.5 % being backed by the
grid. The increase of 3.5 % in self-sufficiency is achieved through BESS
charging and discharging beyond their connection point to exchange
electricity with peers. The increase is achieved purely through optimised
utilisation of the BESS capacities without an increase in generation
infrastructure. The BESS charges on peers’ solar excess through the grid
during solar generation times if the own solar system does not generate
enough energy to fully charge the BESS. This ensures all BESS in the LEM
charge to the maximum energy level, which is set at 90 % of capacity, on
as many days as possible. Further, the BESS discharges to the grid
beyond its own load requirements during peak demand times to trade
with peers. The charge and discharge times are communicated to the
BESS via the LEM platform. Additional solar PV and BESS systems could
elevate self-sufficiency, further lowering dependence on the grid. The
increase in self-sufficiency lowers the emissions of greenhouse gases
related to electricity consumption due to the reliance of grid energy on
fossil-based sources.
Fig. 4b illustrates the community’s self-consumption, which is the
portion of total generated and consumed energy in relation to the overall
energy generated. In a scenario without LEM and including STL, the
community’s self-consumption is 80.9 %, with the remaining 19.1 %
being sent back to the grid. However, the LEM implementation has
raised the self-consumption of the LEM to 92.1 %, with about 7.9 %
exported back to the grid. The findings regarding elevated selfsufficiency and self-consumption have been achieved in the specific
context set in this paper. The employed strategies for BESS control will
automatically lead to a reduced dependency on the grid and higher use
of local energy, however, the achieved difference from a scenario
without LEM may differ in different market contexts. In summary, the

|T| [(
) (
)]
∑
ret
ret
sell− ret
× Psell−
× Δt + ctou
× Δt
csell−
f ,t
f,t
n,t × Ptou,t
t=1

(29)

ret
ret
where the retailer sells Psell−
at csell−
price through the FBC at a given
f,t
f ,t

ret
time slot t ∈ T while Psell−
implies power sold via ToU price ctou
tou,t
n,t to
residential customers.
buy− ret

Under volatile spot market, cw,t

becomes much higher than the

buy− ret
fit
ret
usual price while cf ,t
, csell−
, cn,t , and ctou
n,t remain the same. This can
f,t
ret

result in a financial loss L (|T|) over a period of |T|, which can be
determined from (30) and (31) as follows:
Lret (|T|) = Cbuy− ret(tot) (|T|) − Csell− ret(tot) (|T|)

(30)

The proposed local energy trading aims at lowering Lret (|T|) such
that:
Lret (l, |T|) < Lret (|T|)

(31)

6. Results and discussions
6.1. Self-sufficiency in LEM
The LEM can enhance the trading group’s self-sufficiency by allowing energy to be exchanged between peers, as shown in Fig. 4a. Selfsufficiency refers to the energy generated and used in proportion to
the total energy demand. Customers with solar PV systems and BESS can
contribute to the community’s self-sufficiency beyond their own consumption level. The BAU scenario displayed in Table 1 shows that,
including STL, DERs altogether contribute 25.0 % to meet the load
8

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458

Fig. 6. Case A (low spot prices): Comparison of BAU with LEM income out of
energy procurement in the NEM.

Fig. 7. Case B (high spot prices): Comparison of BAU with LEM income out of
energy procurement in the NEM.

results of the proposed LEM system enhance understanding of strategies
for achieving high levels of self-sufficiency and self-consumption. This is
achieved by providing quantitative evidence and demonstrating economic benefits through the optimised use of existing DERs, specifically
via solar PV- and BESS-facilitated P2P trading. Furthermore, the LEM
contributes to an increase in the retailer’s ability to reduce risks, especially during periods of high spot prices.

price to the seller at a 5 % margin retained by the retailer. Furthermore,
the LEM reduces the amount of solar PV surplus sold to the wholesale
energy market. But this has a lower effect on the income of the retailer
because of low spot prices. With spot prices going negative on several
occasions in areas with high solar PV penetration, this could even be
advantageous to the retailer. With the BESSs serving some of the demand of peers, there is a slight drop in the energy FBCs supplied, which
is instead sold to the wholesale market (the procured energy at the futures market is too much for the actual demand, leading to a long position). Low spot prices, however, result in a low income from long
positions sold on the wholesale market. The quantity of short positions
(the procured energy at the futures market is too little) reduces due to
the BESS discharge, which means that the retailer procures less energy
from the wholesale market. Altogether, these effects slightly reduce income in Case A, where spot prices are lower than the energy price
offered by customers.
The retailer’s energy procurement expenses have been positively
impacted by the LEM throughout the elevated spot price week. Fig. 7
illustrates a reduction in income from trading surplus solar PV rather
than purchasing and selling at the FiT and grid buy rates, respectively.
Also, there is a reduction in solar PV excess offered to the wholesale
market, which reduces the retailer’s income further. The reason for this
is that the spot prices are mostly beyond the FiT rate of 5 c/kWh, even
for supply intervals, therefore resulting in a benefit for the retailer from
arbitraging between the FiT rate and spot price. In comparison to BAU,
there is a marginal drop in the amount of energy delivered by FBCs in
LEM that causes a positive impact since the average FBC prices in Q2
2022 have also experienced a rise above the energy price that can be
recovered from customers via the grid buy rate. High spot prices can
justify selling long positions in the spot market to benefit retailers, as
seen in Fig. 7. Spot prices are elevated further during evening peak
periods when long positions in LEM mostly take place because of BESS
discharge to peers, which reduces the load requirement of the community, thereby leading to a substantial gain for the retailer.
In Case B, the primary advantage for a retailer stems from the cost
savings achieved by procuring extra energy from the spot market during
brief intervals. This is facilitated by the decreased load peak in the
evening, achieved by discharging energy from the BESS. By mitigating
the retailer’s vulnerability to fluctuating wholesale market prices, the
BESS also diminishes the occasional substantial losses incurred during
high spot price periods, such as demonstrated in Case B. This serves to
counterbalance the adverse effects of predominantly trading solar PV
energy through P2P mechanisms, which transfer the buyer’s pricing to
the seller and subsequently reduce the quantity of solar PV energy sold
at elevated wholesale market’s prices.

6.2. LEM helps retailer in uncertain wholesale market
The retailer trades energy under the different metrics outlined in
Table 2. The average daily energy volumes in BAU, including spot prices, FBC price, FiT price and grid buy rate are displayed in Fig. 5.
Generally, the retailer procures energy from three different sources,
namely customers’ solar PV via FiT (Fig. 5a and b), from FBCs and from
the spot market (Fig. 5c and d) and sells it to customers via the grid buy
rate or to the wholesale market. Fig. 5a and b shows the energy from
solar PV. The retailer has an obligation to procure the whole export of
prosumers via FiT, which can then be sold at a profit to other customers
as the buying price (FiT) lays below the sell price (grid buy rate) (SLT).
The remainder, which is not consumed by the retailer’s portfolio, is sold
to the wholesale spot market. In both scenarios (lower and higher spot
prices), this is done at a profit for the retailer even though the low spot
prices are greater than the FiT rate of 5 c/kWh. The net load after STL is
sourced from FBCs (FBC-L), with the remainder being balanced by the
spot market (Short and Long) (Fig. 5c and d). In the low spot scenario,
FBC-L is done at a profit for the retailer as the average FBC price is lower
than the grid buy rate. This is not the case in the high-spot scenario, due
to elevated FBC prices (20.2 c/kWh), which rose above the grid buy rate,
leading to a substantial loss for retailers. In the low spot scenario, the
retailer benefits financially during short periods, as the average spot
prices are lower than grid buy rates. The low spot prices lead to a
disadvantage during long periods due to the selling price (spot) being
slightly lower than the buying price (FBC). Both cases are reversed in the
high-spot scenario, as the retailer has to buy energy at costly spot prices
during short periods but can sell at beneficial rates during long periods.
The specific financial implications in all cases, as well as the impact of
the LEM, are discussed below.
During the week when the wholesale spot prices are low, the LEM
causes a decrease in retailer’s income from buying energy via FiT, FBCs,
and the wholesale spot market and then selling it to consumers. Typically, at low spot prices, retailers can profit by buying energy at low
market prices and selling it at higher rates to end customers. However,
considering LEM, the reduction in income is due to the limited amount
of energy that is available for the retailer to procure at the FiT rate of 5
c/kWh and sell higher to customers (in the range between 15.25 c/kWh
and 17.76 c/kWh). Fig. 6 shows that most of the energy previously
bought at FiT is sold through P2P in LEM, passing the bought energy
9

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458

Fig. 9. BAU vs. LEM: BESS PBP.

Fig. 8. BAU vs. LEM: Customers % electricity cost reduction.
Table 3
Investment returns metrics for BESS.
Investment returns metrics

BAU

LEM

PBP (Years)
ROI (%)
NPV (AU$)
IRR (%)

9.38
20.2
− 2,595
4.9

8.14
34.6
− 989
8.1

6.3. Residential customers bill reduction

Fig. 10. BAU vs. LEM – Annual cash flow for Solar PV and BESS.

All customers in LEM trading experience positive benefits such as
lower energy bills and increased use of renewable energy. Fig. 8 shows a
significant reduction of 13.3 % in energy consumption cost for those
with BESS and solar PVs, a 9.9 % reduction for those with only solar PVs,
and a 3.1 % reduction even for those without any assets. The LEM is
designed to benefit those who own a BESS the most because they
contribute the most to the community by sharing their BESS capacity.
The cost reductions observed are achieved without changing network
fees or reducing current retailer margins.

reason to invest in a BESS in addition to reducing their electricity costs.
Fig. 9 displays the investment cost for solar PV and BESS in comparison to BAU and LEM by reducing the initial and annual investments
by the annual cash inflow (positive income). The additional LEM income
leads to a steeper decline in remaining asset costs until break-even is
reached. The difference in profit accumulation between BAU and LEM is
accelerated over time due to the increase in profit per kWh traded P2P
vs. sold to the grid. This is achieved by only focusing on P2P trading as
an additional income stream.
The annual average cash flow of LEM vs. BAU cases is shown in
Fig. 10. Cash outflows comprise operational expenditure (OpEx) due to
maintenance for solar PV and BESS. The yearly incoming cash comprises
mainly earnings derived from balancing the energy acquired from the
electricity grid with self-produced energy, along with surplus energy
sold to the retailer at the FiT price, which represents the BAU scenario
for DERs. In the LEM scenario, there is extra income acquired from energy sold via P2P within the LEM. The revenue generated by the battery
is decreased due to the opportunity cost of selling solar PV energy
through the FiT mechanism instead of using it to charge the BESS. An
additional expense arises from battery charging using peer-provided
energy and disbursing at a P2P buying rate. Over time, the annual
cash flow diminishes due to the gradual deterioration of the BESS and
solar PV systems, resulting in a decrease in energy production. However,
the benefit per unit of electricity absorbed internally, as opposed to
being sourced from the grid, improves with rising prices. This helps
counterbalance the energy output reduction caused by degradation. To
be more specific, the solar PV system experiences minor annual degradation of about 0.5 %, yet it generates substantial annual cash inflows.
Moreover, a decrease in the FiT rate amplifies the value of selling excess
solar PV and battery energy via P2P transactions instead of using the FiT
rate. This is because the divergence between P2P and FiT selling prices
becomes more significant.
While LEMs offer promising opportunities for decentralised energy
trading, grid management, and participant revenue streams, several
obstacles may arise, including regulatory barriers, market design complexities, and technological integration challenges. To maximise the
positive impacts of LEMs, it is crucial to conduct comprehensive feasibility studies that consider the specific market context and identify

6.4. BESS return of investment in LEM
The decrease in energy bills assists in shortening the PBP of investing
in solar PV and BESS. As shown in Table 3, the PBP of a combined BESS
and PV system in the LEM scenario is reduced by 1.25 years, achieving
break-even three years before the end of the system’s lifetime. In
contrast, in a BAU, the break-even point is achieved closer to the end of
the lifetime, i.e., 9.38 years. This leads to a higher ROI of 34.6 % after
the LEM-operated battery lifetime, in comparison to 20.2 % without the
LEM, showing a greater yield on investment, as can be seen in Table 3. It
is worth noting that a BESS often operates beyond its nominal lifetime,
albeit with compromised capacity. LEM presents a remarkable revenueacquisition stream through P2P-based energy exchanges with other
customers. With rising electricity and declining BESS costs, the PBP
could be shortened further, encouraging the adoption of higher-capacity
BESS, which would in turn further enhance the economic and network
benefits of P2P trading.
Although the NPV of solar PV and BESS over their lifetimes is
negative with the discount rate selected under BAU and LEM, the LEM
option can improve the NPV by over 50 %, resulting in a NPV with a
positive value if the PV and BESS operate beyond 12 years. The IRR for a
battery utilised under LEM shows that it achieves a break-even NPV in
its lifetime, incurring an interest at a rate of 8.1 %, which exceeds the
BAU by 3 % but is still lower than the standard discount rate (10 %)
employed for NPV. Although the investment may not be financially
attractive at the low IRRs, it is worthy to mention that a BESS can offer
additional services beyond self-consumption and P2P trading, such as
ancillary and flexibility services. Moreover, for BESS-owning prosumers,
the opportunity to increase their self-generated energy supply is a key
10

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458

CRediT authorship contribution statement
Liaqat Ali: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Supervision, Resources, Project administration, Methodology, Investigation, Funding acquisition, Formal analysis, Data curation,
Conceptualization. M. Imran Azim: Writing – review & editing, Writing
– original draft, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Jan Peters: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Investigation, Formal analysis. Ehsan Pashajavid: Writing –
review & editing, Supervision, Formal analysis.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence
the work reported in this paper.

Fig. 11. Comparison of self-sufficiency and self-consumption with [57].

Data availability

potential hurdles. Strategies for overcoming these challenges may
include regulatory reforms to accommodate LEMs, standardisation of
market rules and protocols, and the development of interoperable
technologies. Additionally, stakeholder engagement and public awareness campaigns can help build trust and support for LEM initiatives,
ultimately leading to a more sustainable and resilient energy system for
all participants.

The data that has been used is confidential.
References
[1] Sahebi A, Jadid S. A robust model of local energy market under a security
constraint-based approach for distribution system operator and multi-energy
microgrids. Elec Power Syst Res Feb. 2023;217:109164: 1–14.
[2] Suthar S, Cherukuri SHC, Pindoriya NM. Peer-to-peer energy trading in smart grid:
frameworks, implementation methodologies, and demonstration projects. Elec
Power Syst Res Jan. 2023;214:108907:1–20.
[3] Azim MI, Tushar W, Saha TK, Yuen C, Smith D. Peer-to-peer kilowatt and negawatt
trading: a review of challenges and recent advances in distribution networks.
Renew Sustain Energy Rev Nov. 2022;169:112908: 1–23.
[4] Ali L, et al. A win-win local energy market for participants, retailers, and the
network operator : a peer-to-peer trading-driven case study. 2022 IEEE 20th
International Conference on Industrial Informatics (INDIN), Perth, Australia 2022:
175–9. https://doi.org/10.1109/INDIN51773.2022.9976167.
[5] Xia Y, Xu Q, Tao S, Du P, Ding Y, Fang J. Preserving operation privacy of peer-topeer energy transaction based on enhanced benders decomposition considering
uncertainty of renewable energy generations. Energy Jul. 2022;250:123567: 1–14.
[6] Kirchhoff H, Strunz K. Key drivers for successful development of peer-to-peer
microgrids for swarm electrification. Appl Energy Jun. 2019;244:46–62.
[7] An J, Hong T, Lee M. Determining the optimal trading price of electricity for energy
consumers and prosumers. Renew Sustain Energy Rev Feb. 2022;154:111851:
1–17.
[8] Liu Y, Wu L, Li J. A two-stage peer-to-peer energy trading model for distribution
systems with the participation of the utility. CSEE Journal of Power and Energy
Systems Sep. 2021;7(5):893–902.
[9] Kim HJ, Chung YS, Kim SJ, Kim HT, Jin YG, Yoon YT. Pricing mechanisms for peerto-peer energy trading: towards an integrated understanding of energy and
network service pricing mechanisms. Renew Sustain Energy Rev Sep. 2023;183:
113435: 1–19.
[10] Zhou Y, Lund PD. Peer-to-peer energy sharing and trading of renewable energy in
smart communities trading pricing models, decision-making and agent-based
collaboration. Renew Energy May 2023;207:177–93.
[11] Zhang R, Lee M, Zhao D, Kang H, Hong T. Peer-to-peer trading price and strategy
optimization considering different electricity market types, tariff systems, and
pricing models. Energy Build Dec. 2023;200:113645: 1–22.
[12] Azim MI, Ali L, Peters J, Shawon MH, Tatari FR, Muyeen SM, et al. A proportional
power sharing method through a local control for a low-voltage islanded
microgrid. Energy Rep Dec. 2022;8:51–9.
[13] Mochi P, Pandya KS, Faia R, Dabhi D, Soares J, Vale Z. Empowering customers in
local electricity market: a prosumer segmentation and operating envelope strategy
for joint cost reduction and profit maximization. Elec Power Syst Res Jan. 2024;
226:109908: 1–11.
[14] Ali L, Bhandari V, Peters J, Tushar W, Nizami S, Menon A, Tiwari V, Green J,
Saha T. Discover how you can save money and help the environment with local
energy markets: an Australian case study. Smart Energy Council, Industry Updates,
Press Releases; 2023. p. 1–4.
[15] Chau SC-K, Xu J, Bow W, Elbassioni K. Peer-to-peer energy sharing: effective costsharing mechanisms and social efficiency. In: Proc. Of the international conference
on future energy systems. USA: New York; Jun. 2019. p. 215–25.
[16] Ali L, Azim MI, Peters J, Pashajavid E, Bhandari V, Menon A, Tiwari V, Green J.
Local energy markets improve investment returns of residential BESS by arbitrage
opportunities. In: Proc. Of the IEEE sustainable power and energy conference.
Australia: Perth; Dec. 2022. p. 1–5.
[17] Khodoomi M, Sahebi H. Robust optimization and pricing of peer-to-peer energy
trading considering battery storage. Comput Ind Eng May 2023;179. 109210: 1–14.

6.5. Comparative analysis
Fig. 11 shows the comparison between the proposed LEM and a
residential precinct utilising thermal storage for energy sharing discussed in Ref. [57]. The analyses demonstrated in Ref. [57] result in a
self-consumption of 77 % whilst achieving a self-sufficiency of 20 %. In
contrast, the LEM proposed in this paper achieves a self-sufficiency of
29 % and a self-consumption of 92 %, thereby surpassing the results of
[57].
7. Conclusion
This paper has examined the implication of the wholesale market’s
volatile spot prices on a retailer’s income and evaluated the advantages
of using a P2P trading-oriented LEM in comparison to the current BAU
scenarios. The study has analysed high and low spot price scenarios and
found that lower spot prices can cause more benefits for retailers. To this
end, the LEM helps to decrease the effect of higher wholesale spot prices
by providing more flexible demand and minimising the energy volume
bought at high spot prices during peak demand intervals. This is
particularly beneficial for small-sized retailers or those retailers who
cannot secure sufficient energy in future markets to withstand periods of
highly inflated prices. Furthermore, it has been shown that LEM can
enhance self-sufficiency by enabling energy sharing among peers and
expanding the role of DERs. Additionally, the community has increased
the usage of locally generated energy through greater self-consumption
of DERs. This study has explored the advantages of a P2P tradingoriented LEM in comparison to BAU, for the economic viability of
solar PV systems and BESSs. It is illustrated that sharing P2P energy by
customers at a higher rate than the declining and marginal FiT can
reduce the PBP of the BESS. Considering prosumers with solar PV systems and BESSs, the investment returns of BESSs have been improved as
the LEM minimises the total energy cost significantly.
Future work will incorporate the technical constraints of distribution
networks to improve the performance of the proposed LEM. Further, the
findings of this study will be vetted through an analysis of additional
market contexts. Also, advanced algorithms can be developed to secure
the local energy exchanges.

11

L. Ali et al.

Energy 306 (2024) 132458
[38] Esmaeili Aliabadi D, Kaya M, Sahin G. Competition, risk and learning in electricity
markets: an agent-based simulation study. Appl Energy 2017;195:1000–11.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2017.03.121.
[39] Haider S, Walewski J, Schegner P. Investigating peer-to-peer power transactions
for reducing EV induced network congestion. Energy 2022;254:124317.
[40] Gjorgievski VZ, Cundeva S, Markovska N, Georghiou GE. Virtual net-billing: a fair
energy sharing method for collective self-consumption. Energy 2022;254:124246.
[41] Huang Z, Wang F, Lu Y, Chen X, Wu Q. Optimization model for home energy
management system of rural dwelling. Energy 2023;283:129039.
[42] How local energy markets benefit distribution utilities. Powerledger, White Paper
Rev. 2023;1. https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.23163.69925 [Online]. Available: .
[Accessed 20 May 2024].
[43] TradeRES - new market model for 100% renewable power systems.”[Online].
Available: https://traderes.eu/, (Accessed: May 20, 2024).
[44] Ali L, Azim MI, Peters J, Ojha Nabin B, Simoes MG, Muyeen SM. DERs
orchestration and Gen3 blockchain integration in P2P trading based distribution
network. In: The 2024 International Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and
Machine Learning for Energy Transformation (AIE), Vaasa, Finland, May 20-22;
2024. p. 1–6.
[45] “Inquiry into the national electricity market May 2022. [Online]. Available: https
://www.accc.gov.au/system/files/Inquiry%20into%20the%20National%
20Electricity%20Market%20-%20May%202022%20report%2813880615.1%29.
pdf. [Accessed 20 May 2024].
[46] “Review into the aggreements for failed retailers’ electricity and gas contracts”, pp.
1-85 [Online]. Available: https://www.aemc.gov.au/sites/default/files/2022-10
/RPR0016%20-%20consultation%20paper%20-%2020221013.pdf, (Accessed:
May 20, 2024).
[47] “AusGrid residential data Dec 2013 [Online]. Available: https://www.ausgrid.com.
au/Industry/Our-Research/Data-to-share/Solar-home-electricity-data. [Accessed
20 May 2024].
[48] Retail tariff source,” [Online]. Available: https://www.energymadeeasy.gov.au/?
postcode=2765, (Accessed: May 20, 2024).
[49] Forward contracts in electricity markets: The Australian experience,” [Online].
Available: https://www.ceem.unsw.edu.au/sites/default/files/uploads/publicat
ions/contractsurvey_short_May2006.pdf, (Accessed: May 20, 2024).
[50] “How retailers use contracts to hedge customers, [Online]. Available: https://wattc
larity.com.au/articles/2019/10/how-retailers-use-contracts-to-hedge-customers/,
(Accessed: May 20, 2024).
[51] “Quarterly energy dynamics Q2 2022 [Online]. Available: https://aemo.com.au/-/
media/files/major-publications/qed/2022/qed-q2-2022.pdf?la=en&hash=73D
C1623997128E30EB3F6EBFD2E5AAC. [Accessed 20 May 2024].
[52] “Aggregated price and demand data [Online]. Available: https://aemo.com.
au/energy-systems/electricity/national-electricity-market-nem/data-nem/aggr
egated-data, (Accessed: May 20, 2024).
[53] “What is net present value (NPV)? [Online]. Available: https://www.investopedia.
com/terms/n/npv.asp#:~:text=Net%20present%20value%20(NPV)%20is,a%20
projected%20investment%20or%20project, (Accessed: May 20, 2024).
[54] “Internal rate of return (IRR) rule: Definition and example [Online]. Available:
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/irr.asp, (Accessed: May 20, 2024).
[55] “Payback period explained, with the formula and how to calculate it [Online].
Available: https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/paybackperiod.asp, (Accessed:
May 20, 2024).
[56] “How to calculate return on investment (ROI) [Online]. Available: https://www.in
vestopedia.com/articles/basics/10/guide-to-calculating-roi.asp, (Accessed: May
20, 2024).
[57] Huang P, Lovati M, Zhang X, Bales C, Hallbeck S, Becker A, Bergqvist H, Hedberg J,
Maturi L. Transforming a residential building cluster into electricity prosumers in
Sweden: optimal design of a coupled PV-heat pump-thermal storage-electric
vehicle system. Appl Energy 2019;255. Dec. 2019, p.113864: 1-17.

[18] Sahebi H, Khodoomi M, Seif M, Pishvaee M, Hanne T. The benefits of peer-to-peer
renewable energy trading and battery storage backup for local grid. J Energy
Storage Jul. 2023;63. 106970: 1–11.
[19] Zheng B, Wei W, Chen Y, Wu Q, Mei S. A peer-to-peer energy trading market
embedded with residential shared energy storage units. Appl Energy Feb. 2022;
308. 118400: 1–13.
[20] Zhang WY, Zheng B, Wei W, Chen L, Mei S. Peer-to-peer transactive mechanism for
residential shared energy storage. Energy May 2022;246. 123204: 1–12.
[21] Chen Y, Pei W, Ma T, Xiao H. Asymmetric Nash bargaining model for peer-to-peer
energy transactions combined with shared energy storage. Energy Sep. 2023;278.
127980: 1–13.
[22] Ali L, Azim MI, Peters J, Bhandari V, Menon A, Tiwari V, et al. BESS-facilitated
local energy market: a case study on typical Australian consumers. Proc. IAEE Int.
Conf. Jul./Aug. 2022:1–2.
[23] Ali L, Peters J, Azim MI, Pashajavid E, Bhandari V, Menon A, Tiwari V, Ghosh A,
Green J. How P2P trading helps an electricity retailer exposed to volatile spot
prices: a case study. In: Proc. Of the IEEE sustainable power and energy conference.
Australia: Perth; Dec. 2022. p. 1–5.
[24] Ali L, Azim MI, Peters J, Padmanaban S, Bhandari V, Menon A, Green J, Muyeen S.
Singapore local energy market development using blockchain enabled P2P trading.
In: Proc. Of the IEEE international conference on power electronics and drive
systems. Canada: Montreal; Aug. 2023. p. 1–6.
[25] Xiao Y, Wang X, Pinson P, Wang X. Transactive energy based aggregation of
prosumers as a retailer. IEEE Trans Smart Grid Jul. 2020;11(4):3302–12.
[26] Wang Z, Yu X, Mu Y, Jia H, Jiang Q, Wang X. Peer-to-peer energy trading strategy
for energy balance service provider (EBSP) considering market elasticity in
community microgrid. Appl Energy Dec. 2021;303. 117596: 1–12.
[27] Lopez HK, Zilouchian A. Peer-to-peer energy trading for photovoltaic prosumers.
Energy Jan. 2023;263. 125563: 1–15.
[28] Ali L, et al. P2P as a smarter way of energy trading: a game theoretic case study for
multi-microgrids. 2022 10th International Conference on Smart Grid
(icSmartGrid), Istanbul, Turkey 2022:285–9. https://doi.org/10.1109/
icSmartGrid55722.2022.9848556.
[29] Ruan H, Gao H, Gooi HB, Liu J. Active distribution network operation management
integrated with P2P trading. Appl Energy Oct. 2022;323. 119632: 1–11.
[30] Neves D, Scott I, Silva CA. Peer-to-peer energy trading potential: an assessment for
the residential sector under different technology and tariff availabilities. Energy
2020;205:118023.
[31] Bian Y, Xie L, Ye J, Ma L, Cui C. Peer-to-peer energy sharing model considering
multi-objective optimal allocation of shared energy storage in a multi-microgrid
system. Energy 2024;288:129864.
[32] Ali L, Azim MI, Ojha NB, Peters J, Bhandari V, Menon A, Tiwari V, Green J,
Muyeen S. Balancing usage profiles and benefitting end users through blockchain
based local energy trading: a German case study. Energies Aug. 2023;16(17). 6315:
1–18.
[33] Long C, Wu J, Zhou Y, Jenkins N. Aggregated battery control for peer-to-peer
energy sharing in a community Microgrid with PV battery systems. Energy Proc
2018;145:522–7. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2018.04.076.
[34] Iria J, Soares F, Matos M. Optimal supply and demand bidding strategy for an
aggregator of small prosumers. Appl Energy 2018;213:658–69. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.apenergy.2017.09.002.
[35] Ali L, et al. Integrating forecasting service and Gen2 blockchain into a local energy
trading platform to promote sustainability goals. IEEE Access 2024;12:2941–64.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3347432.
[36] Han L, Morstyn T, McCulloch MD. Chapter 6 - peer-to-peer energy platforms. In:
Pinto T, Vale Z, Widergren S, editors. Local electricity markets. Academic Press;
2021. p. 91–105. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-820074-2.00012-5.
[37] Olivella-Rosell P, et al. Local flexibility market design for aggregators providing
multiple flexibility services at distribution network level. Energies 2018;11(4).
https://doi.org/10.3390/en11040822.

12

