Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Solar Energy
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/solener

A Stackelberg game-based peer-to-peer energy trading market with energy
management and pricing mechanism: A case study in Guangzhou
Xiaojun Yu a, Deng Pan a, Yuekuan Zhou a, b, c, d, *
a

Sustainable Energy and Environment Thrust, Function Hub, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou), Nansha, Guangzhou 511400,
Guangdong, China
b
Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region, China
c
HKUST Shenzhen-Hong Kong Collaborative Innovation Research Institute, Futian, Shenzhen 518048, China
d
Division of Emerging Interdisciplinary Areas, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China

A R T I C L E I N F O

A B S T R A C T

Keywords:
P2P energy trading
Distributed energy resources
Stackelberg game theory
Nash bargaining
Preference satisfaction

With the global transition towards net-zero carbon buildings and carbon neutrality, peer-to-peer energy trading
plays a significant role in mitigating spatio-temporal mismatches between on-site renewable energy generation
and energy consumption. However, dynamic peer-to-peer trading prices and prosumer preference satisfaction
with the dynamic peer-to-peer trading prices have not been fully considered to incentivize prosumers’ partici­
pation in the sharing scheme. This research aims to provide frontier guidelines on peer-to-peer energy trading
mechanisms and synergistic peer-to-peer sharing strategies to achieve the ‘win–win-win’ collaboration mode, so
as to promote low-carbon and sustainable transformations. In this study, a Stackelberg game theory-based in­
tegrated community energy system is proposed, comprising hybrid solar-wind renewables, energy storage sys­
tem, grid-connected prosumers, and energy sharing providers. Dynamic peer-to-peer trading price is set based on
the fair cost-benefit allocation among prosumers through Nash bargaining. Results indicate that peer-to-peer
trading reduces operational carbon emissions by over 24 %, shifting from 865 kg CO2,e reduction to 1073 kg
CO2,e reduction. Load-shifting within peer-to-peer trading improves self-consumed renewable energy from 46 %
to 70 %, covering electricity demand with renewables from 50 % to 74 %. Identified peer-to-peer trading prices
for hotel, office, and residential buildings are 0.59 CNY/kWh, 0.15 CNY/kWh, and 0.46 CNY/kWh, respectively.
Compared to traditional prosumer-to-grid trading, peer-to-peer trading reduces costs from 2394 CNY to 448
CNY, stimulating the proactivity of multi-stakeholders. Overall, peer-to-peer energy trading brings a further
utilization of the renewable energy, and largely decreases the reliance on grid electricity, leading to great
benefits from the techno-environmental-economic aspects. However, peer-to-peer energy trading should be
continuously investigated under uncertainty prediction and sustainable business models to ensure its robust
implementation and long-term feasibility.

1. Introduction
Nowadays, energy efficiency, clean energy, and low-carbon trans­
formations are the mainstream for sustainable development all over the
world [1–3]. Development and adoption of a multi-energy system with
deep integration of emerging technologies with cross-scale models [4,5]
has become the necessary choice and objective requirement for energy
revolution and innovation [6], low-carbon transition [7,8]. As a
response to this trend, integrated community energy system (ICES) is put

forward and has become an objective requirement in the ongoing energy
revolution, leading to the coordination and optimization of renewable
energy generation, transmission, distribution, consumption, trading,
and allocation [9]. Synergies of the ICES within the innovative ’sourcegrid-load-storage’ pattern greatly promote the consumption of on-site
renewable energy and capitalize on the complementary advantages of
the traditional fossil fuel energy system to ensure energy efficiency,
economic feasibility and environmental benefit.
The swift progress in renewable energy technologies has made solar
and wind energy the primary renewable sources [10], resulting in

* Corresponding author at: Sustainable Energy and Environment Thrust, Function Hub, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou),
Nansha, Guangzhou 511400, Guangdong, China.
E-mail addresses: yuekuanzhou@ust.hk, yuekuan.zhou@outlook.com, yuekuanzhou@hkust-gz.edu.cn (Y. Zhou).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2024.112388
Received 1 September 2023; Received in revised form 26 January 2024; Accepted 4 February 2024
Available online 14 February 2024
0038-092X/© 2024 International Solar Energy Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Nomenclature
Pi,t
load

load consumption of prosumer i at time step t

RES
SCR
SSR
ToU

Pi,t
imp/exp

import/export power of prosumer i at time step t

Parameters
Cap
battery capacity

Variables
Pi,t
RE

on-site renewable energy of prosumer i at time step t

min/max

maximum/minimum importation/exportation restriction

min/max
Pchar/disch

maximum/minimum charging/discharging restriction

Pimp/exp

Pi,t
char/disch charging/discharging power of the battery of prosumer i
at time step t

renewable energy system
self-consumption ratio
self-sufficiency ratio
time-of-use

Pi,t
P2P

P2P trading amount of prosumer i at time step t

ηchar/disch charging/discharging efficiency

λi,t
s/b

internal trading price of prosumer i at time step t

λi,t
imp

SOCi,t
λi,t
P2P

state of charge of battery in prosumer i at time step t

SOCmin/max upper/lower SOC limitation

P2P trading price of prosumer i at time step t

λi,t
exp

Acronyms
ESS
energy storage system
FiT
feed-in tariff
ICES
integrated community energy system
P2G
prosumer-to-grid
P2P
peer-to-peer

Sets
N
T

ρ

grid import price (ToU)
grid export price (FiT)
set of prosumers
set of time steps
set of strategies

various game theory models to analyse different participants’ behav­
iours. Cooperative game theory models focus more on the fairness of a
set of participants, while non-cooperative game theory models mainly
focus on interactions and preferences of each participant [22]. Long
et al. [23] used the cooperative game theory model with the Shapley
value in the decision-making process for P2P energy trading. Compared
with bill sharing, mid-market rate, and supply–demand ratio algorithms,
results showed the optimality and fairness of the proposed method for
P2P energy trading. Li et al. [24] designed an energy trading framework
based on the generalized Nash bargaining cooperative game to realize
the fairly allocated benefits. Han et al. [25] developed a cooperative
game theory model for ESS operations optimization to minimize the
coalitional energy cost, which greatly incentivized prosumers to
participate in the P2P trading. However, in reality, not all participants
are willing to be treated identically in a coalition, due to the possible
sacrifice of several participants’ benefits under the uneven investmentpayback activities. Meanwhile, coalition can only operate based on
self-enforcing, which makes the implementation more difficult. There­
fore, in order to treat each participant in a coalition as equally as
possible, non-cooperative game theory has been developed due to the
more detailed interaction procedure. In the P2P energy trading process,
both evolutionary game theory and Stackelberg game theory are applied
by Paudel et al. [26] to model the dynamic selection among buyers and
interactions between buyers and sellers. Lee et al. [27] added noncooperative games among sellers to further conduct the energy trading
strategy with considerations on lifetime cost of ESS. Note that, the
requirement is gradually increasing for feedback mechanisms and
preference satisfaction of each participant, while the current literature
fails to focus on DR and operation optimization under the noncooperative and dynamic game theory frameworks.
Moreover, uncertainty optimization is important in the P2P energy
trading market, since uncertainty may lead to suboptimal decisionmaking for inefficient allocation of energy resources and energy
trading price setting. Electricity market model [28] and vehicle model
[29] is important for industry applications. Coupling under multitimescales and multi-operating conditions on the end-user side makes
the uncertainty optimization of the P2P energy trading even more
extremely challenging [30]. Robust optimization and stochastic opti­
mization are currently two effective paradigms for solving uncertainty
problems [31]. Yan et al. [32] proposed a load uncertainty model by
combining fuzzy multi-objective decisions and a two-stage adaptive

increased distributed renewable energy penetration in the ICES. How­
ever, due to their intermittent and uncertain nature [11], predicting the
precise magnitude and duration of excess renewable energy remains
challenging. In order to solve the above issues and achieve the novel
’source-grid-load-storage’ paradigm, a peer-to-peer (P2P) energy
trading market has gradually attracted widespread interest. Under the
P2P trading mode with multi-participants, efficient energy dispatch and
management are highly required for the ICES [12,13], especially flexible
energy management strategies for the distributed renewable energy,
energy storage system (ESS) [14,15], individual energy consumption
and P2P energy trading among prosumers. From the perspective of
prosumers’ behaviour characteristics, preference satisfaction [13,16],
including prosumers’ individual preferences [16], financial subsidies
[17], environmental and social policies [18], energy security [19,20],
etc., can be assumed as tailored services for prosumers considering the
willingness of prosumers. Therefore, establishment of the P2P energy
trading system requires to maintain the balance between the flexible
energy management through technological support and participants’
willingness by considering their preference satisfaction to ensure its
success and sustainability.
Based on the above condition, operational mechanism of P2P energy
trading is discussed in this research to promote sustainable energy
development by optimizing energy utilization, enhancing economic ef­
ficiency, and fostering the broader application of renewable energy
sources. P2P energy trading is firstly conducted through economic in­
centives, consequentially reducing reliance on traditional fossil fuel and
switching to cleaner energy options. Thus, the objective of this research
is not only to provide a profound understanding of the flexible and
feasible P2P energy trading mechanism, but also to reveal its potential
benefits in terms of economic advancement and environmental sus­
tainability, further supporting the construction of a more sustainable
energy framework.
2. Literature review
Previous studies have extensively explored different game theory
models within the P2P distributed energy trading framework, such as
cooperative game theory models and non-cooperative game theory
models [21–27]. Game theory is the field of applied mathematics that
uses models to study interactions in incentive structures among multiple
participants [21]. In P2P energy trading, researchers have widely used
2

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

robust method to select the type and capacity of the ESS in the ICES.
Results show that the load budget uncertainty and annual load growth
rate only affect the optimal capacity of ESS, while the energy purchase
price influences both the optimal type and capacity. Tostado-Véliz et al.
[33] carried out a three-stage day-ahead scheduling strategy for P2P
transactions among prosumers. The involved uncertainties are incor­
porated through a stochastic-robust formulation, forming a computa­
tionally tractable optimization framework. Under the impact of
stochastic robustness, expected import power is increased by 28 %
compared to the deterministic case, while the export power from pro­
sumers is notably reduced by 40 %. Additionally, optimizations have
always been combined with the game theory approach to address un­
certainty and dispatch problems. With the combination of uncertainty
analysis, game theory can not only provide a framework to dynamically
model the interactions between agents, but also improve the efficiency
of uncertainty optimization techniques. Li et al. [34] proposed a tri-layer
Cournot Nash game-based energy bidding method to solve the riskaversion uncertainty based on stochastic programming. Simulation re­
sults indicate that the proposed method is more practical and econom­
ical for real-world applications, since it comprehensively considers
market competition, uncertainty handling, and energy trading risk.
DR is a market-driven action at the DR service provider (aggregator)
level according to the dynamic power supply characteristics, with the
objective of demand reduction or shifting during peak periods. Pro­
sumers subscribing to the DR program are requested to reduce their peak
demand or turn off one or more energy-consuming appliances in ex­
change for financial incentives, such as extra payments or discounted
electricity rates [17,35]. DR can be generally categorized as price-based
DR and incentive-based DR [36]. The main difference is that for
incentive-based demand response, prosumers are offered subsidies to
reduce load consumption during a given period [37]. Subsidy prices can
be preset to match the wholesale market price (time-of-use price) as realtime pricing [38,39], or lifted only at critical periods (such as critical
peak pricing periods) [40]. As for priced-based DR, prosumers volun­
tarily respond to load reduction by reacting to economic signals, and the
reduction amount highly depends on the dynamic pricing of retail
electricity. Peak-shaving and load-shifting are two typical price signalbased strategies to achieve DR. In consequence, price-based DR is bet­
ter adapted to the P2P distributed energy trading associated with dy­
namic pricing. He et al. [16] introduced the energy pawn as an
intermediary to handle a forecasting-based ESS capacity scheduling, DR
problems, and dynamic pricing problems via Q-learning and rollinghorizon decision-making strategy to maximize benefit of the energy
pawn. Jing et al. [30] used a Nash-type non-cooperative game model to
quantify the fair pricing and demand response schedule for the mini­
mum energy cost during P2P energy trading. However, these studies
only consider the maximum revenue of one side (either for the end-user
side or intermediary retailer) with DR strategies as the optimal objective
instead of balancing the revenue of both sides. Therefore, DR strategies
under the entire energy trading context need to closely connect with
other actions, such as ESS and P2P energy trading, and combined ben­
efits for both sides, instead of only considering one specific action.
In terms of trading behaviours among prosumers and consumers, the
success and scalability of P2P energy trading highly depend on the
preference satisfaction of each participator, which has been embodied in
the objective function under different P2P energy trading frameworks.
Utility functions are widely used to measure welfare or satisfaction and
analyse prosumer’s behaviours in different forms, such as the quadratic
form proposed by Liu et al. [41] and the logarithmic form utility func­
tion by Ma et al.[42]. Although these utility functions have different
forms, they are closely related to the energy consumption and trading
cost to describe the prosumer’s preference satisfaction. Liu et al. [41]
integrated the inconvenience cost with prosumer’s electricity cost as the
utility function in a quadratic form. Results indicate that users’ sensi­
tivity to the price goes down with the enhancement of convenience
level. Even if there is electricity with a lower price, they don’t want to

adjust the power consumption and are more tolerant to the price in­
crease since the adjustment may bother their regular life. Morstyn et al.
[43] found that prosumers care more about risk aversion due to the
relatively small scale. Conditional value at risk is merged as the risk
aversion term in the objective function to quantify expected losses
caused by the uncertainty of distributed renewable energy [44].
Furthermore, mental accounting with cognitive mechanisms is consid­
ered as novel theory-based intervention to promote the P2P energy
trading and decarbonization [45]. Motivational psychology can influ­
ence prosumer’s behaviours and trading decisions based on their per­
spectives, beliefs, and opinions [46]. Human psychology might be
affected by P2P trading design mechanism, subsequently affecting their
behaviours and participations in renewable energy trading [45]. Tushar
et al. [45] introduced the motivational psychology framework for P2P
energy trading, which contains several motivational models that pro­
sumers should satisfy before participating in the P2P energy trading.
Although above research comprehensively explored the impact of pro­
sumers’ preference and satisfaction on P2P energy trading from different
perspectives, the feedback of prosumer’s behaviour and their attitudes
on the previous energy trading price have not been discussed. The
impact of dynamic trading prices on subsequent transaction behaviours
and participation willingness in P2P energy trading of prosumers needs
to be further studied to refine prosumers’ preference and attract their
participation motivation with high satisfaction.
Based on the above literature review, scientific gaps are summarized
as follows: (1) Major existing P2P sharing studies have comparatively
evaluated economic benefits among ESS management and different DR
strategies. However, economic impact of combined ESS and DR on P2P
energy trading has not been quantified, as well as the impact of these
implementations on incentivizing participant willingness through P2P
trading market.
(2) Different pricing mechanisms between ESP and prosumers have
been widely explored, while the P2P trading price (among prosumers)
has not been specifically elaborated. The unclear distinguishment be­
tween internal trading price (ESP and prosumers) and the P2P trading
price (among prosumers) greatly restrains the further development of
P2P energy sharing market.
(3) Furthermore, financial metrics like conditional risk aversion,
welfare utility, etc. have been thoroughly discussed in the energy
trading market, while impacts of P2P trading prices on prosumers’
subsequent transactions and behaviours have not been discussed. Pre­
vious approach for P2P trading prices needs to be further improved,
considering prosumers’ preference satisfaction reaction for long-term
mechanism refinement.
In order to cover the above research gaps, main contributions of this
paper can be summarized as follows:
(1) An ESP-based P2P energy trading framework is proposed to
handle dynamic price and power signals, and the impact of integrated
and combined ESS, DR and P2P transaction on P2P energy trading
market is quantitatively analysed. Real-time control of dynamic energy
consumption via different DR strategies and flexible charging/dis­
charging of the ESS is proposed to achieve the feasible energy dis­
patchment and ensure the maximum benefits, so as to attract
participators’ interests in participating the P2P sharing markets.
(2) Customized internal trading price is developed to guarantee the
simultaneous maximum benefits for prosumers and ESP. Afterward,
cost-benefit reallocation among prosumers is implemented to achieve
the fairness and incentivize prosumer’s proactive to participate the P2P
energy trading.
(3) A general approach is proposed to evaluate prosumers’ prefer­
ence satisfaction and their following reaction to the proposed energy
trading prices (both internal trading price between ESP and local power
grid, and P2P trading price among prosumers), considering additional
constraints of P2P prices.
The remaining sections of this paper are organized as follows: Sec­
tion 2 provides a literature review on P2P energy trading, with an
3

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 1. Outline of the research methodology.

emphasis on the original contributions of this research. Section 3 in­
troduces the architecture of the proposed ICES and its corresponding
market mechanisms. Additionally, the equilibrium solution of the model
is established in this section as well, along with the corresponding so­
lution approach. In Section 4, P2P energy pricing mechanism and pro­
sumer’s preference satisfaction are explored based on fair cost-benefit
allocation method. Case studies and results analysis are comprehen­
sively discussed in Section 5. Finally, Section 6 presents the conclusions
drawn from this work.

model in the ICES is studied with multi-criteria. Different energy man­
agement strategies are implemented between prosumers and ESP,
together with their performance assessments. More details can be
checked in Section 3.3. Thirdly, after getting total costs of all prosumers,
the cost-benefit allocation model is applied to identify the P2P trading
price to ensure the cost equality among all stakeholders, and then the
impact of the P2P trading price on prosumers’ preference satisfaction is
analysed.
As shown in Fig. 2, this study addresses energy management and
pricing issues with ESP and a set of prosumers (including a hotel
building, an office building, and a residential building) in the ICES. Each
prosumer with wind, BIPV and ESS interacts with other prosumers to
achieve the P2P trading mode. The role of local power grid is to work as
a backup to dynamically balance the power supply and load consump­
tions outside of the ICES. As the intermediate bridge between the local
power grid and prosumers, ESP determines the amount of power
importation, power exportation, ESS charging/discharging and P2P
trading amount to balance the real-time supply and demand within the
ICES. Furthermore, ESP also considers the price range to prevent direct

3. Methodology
3.1. Framework and energy flow of the ICES
A holistic overview of the research in this study is shown in Fig. 1.
Firstly, the building energy systems are modelled based on the Transient
System Simulation (TRNSYS) platform to obtain the dynamic cooling/
heating/electric loads, power consumption and renewable energy gen­
eration. Secondly, P2P trading mode under the Stackelberg game theory
4

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 2. Schematic diagram of the ICES operation.

Fig. 3. Energy flow, cash flow and information flow (price and power signals) in the P2P trading mode.

transactions between prosumers and the local power grid, so as to
incentivize prosumers’ willingness to sell surplus renewable energy and
stabilize the local grid power while developing various energy price
strategies.
The leader–follower Stackelberg game theory model is proposed to
solve the energy management and dispatch procedure in the ICES. As
demonstrated in Fig. 3, the optimization process between ESP and
prosumers is sequential, which conforms to the leader–follower archi­
tecture in the Stackelberg game. ESP in the upper-level benefits from the
government’s subsidy and sends the price signal to the lower level, while
prosumers in the lower-level act as the follower to adjust their load
consumption and charging/discharging condition under different DR

strategies after receiving the price signal from the upper-level leader.
Afterwards, prosumers send the power signals back to the upper level as
feedback. As an intermediary, ESP has the priority to determine the
internal price to promote energy transactions among prosumers under
the objective of the maximum revenue of both ESP and prosumers.
Therefore, this study adopts the leader–follower Stackelberg game the­
ory model as a bi-level model to deal with the corresponding game
process of EPS with prosumers and local power grid and to obtain the
maximum benefits for both prosumers and ESP, simultaneously.

5

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

3.2. ESP model

based on the real load consumption situation. According to China
Southern Power Grid [48], external trading price for power import and
export with utility grid has been pre-defined into four periods, i.e., peak
periods (from 10:00 AM to 12:00 AM and from 14:00 PM to 19:00 PM)
with the price at 1.293 CNY/kWh, flat periods (from 8:00 AM to 10:00
AM and from 12:00 AM to 14:00 PM) with the price at 0.772 CNY/kWh,
and off-peak periods (the rest time periods) with the price at 0.31 CNY/
kWh. Meanwhile, grid feed-in tariff is 0.435 CNY/kWh when exporting
renewable energy to local power grid. However, due to the confliction
between time-duration of peak demand in different types of buildings
and the peak period defined by the local power grid, price signals are fed
back to prosumers to help make decisions on whether to choose the high
profit by selling the extra power or stored in the ESS for their further
load consumption.

ESP formulates the price strategy, which controls the selling and
buying prices between the feed-in tariff (FiT) and time-of-use (ToU)
price to incentivize the participant’s motivation for P2P energy trading
and to prevent participants from the direct transaction with the local
grid. Its final benefit (FESP ) is expressed as Equation (1), which includes
the subsidy from the government (Ctsubsidy ), income by exporting surplus
renewable energy to the local power grid (Itexp,ESP ), selling the electricity
to the prosumer (Its,ESP ) , while subtracting the import cost from the

electric grid (Ctimp,ESP ) and buying cost from the prosumer (Ctb,ESP ).
Objective function:
∑N ∑T i,t
i,t
i,t
i,t
FESP =
C
+I i,t
(1)
s,ESP + Iexp,ESP − Cb,ESP − Cimp,ESP
i=1
t=1 subsidy
)
(
i,t
i,t
= α × Pi,t
Csubsidy
imp + Pexp

3.3. Prosumer model

(1.1)

Prosumers’ benefit (Fprosumer ) is reflected in incomes for exporting

i,t
i,t
Is,ESP
= Pi,t
imp × λs

(1.2)

surplus renewable energy to the ESP (Ii,t
s,prosumer ), costs for importing the

i,t
i,t
Iexp,ESP
= Pi,t
exp × FiT

(1.3)

nance cost for the ESS (Ci,t
battery ), as shown in Equation (2).

i,t
t
Cimp,ESP
= Pi,t
imp × ToU

(1.4)

i,t
t
Cb,ESP
= Pi,t
imp × λb

(1.5)

electricity shortage from the ESP (Ii,t
b,prosumer ), operation and mainte­

Objective function:
∑N ∑T
i,t
i,t
I i,t
− Ib,prosumer
− Cbattery
Fprosumer =
i=1
t=1 s,prosumer

i,t
FiT i,t ≤ λi,t
s ≤ ToU

(1.6)

i,t
FiT i,t ≤ λi,t
b ≤ ToU

(1.7)

∑T

i,t
t=1 λs

T

≤ λs

T

i,t
Pi,t
imp × λb

(2.2)

(
)2
(
)
i,t
i,t
i,t
Cbattery
= ae Pi,t
+ be Pi,t
char + Pdisch
char + Pdisch

(2.3)

t=1

∑T
t=1

i,t
where Pi,t
imp and Pexp refer to the amount of import power from the local

power grid and the export power to the local power grid at time step t,

∑T

i,t
t=1 λb

(2.1)

i,t
Ib,prosumer
=

(1.8)

∑T

i,t
Pi,t
exp × λs

i,t
Is,prosumer
=

s.t.

(2)

≤ λb

i,t
Pi,t
char and Pdischar refer to the charging and discharging power of the
battery at time step t. ae and be refer to charging/discharging coefficient.

(1.9)

i,t
λi,t
s and λb refer to the internal selling and buying price of the prosumer.
Constraints for prosumers include energy balance constraints, de­
mand response constraints and charging/discharging constraints.
Energy balance constraints:
Constraint (2.4) demonstrates the energy balance for the ICES, where
total input power equals to the total output power.
∫
∫
∫
∫
∫
i,t
i,t
i,t
Pi,t
dt
+
P
dt
=
P
dt
+
P
dt
+
Pi,t
(2.4)
RE
imp
load
loss
exp dt

i,t
where Pi,t
imp and Pexp refer to the amount of import power from the local

power grid and the export power to the local power grid at time step t.
i,t
λi,t
b is the internal buying price and λs is the internal selling price. λs and

λb refer to the average internal trading price for selling and buying be­
tween the ESP and prosumers, which are equal to the average of the ToU
(time-of-use price) and FiT (grid feed-in tariff). α refers to the subsidy
price. According to the data publicized by Guangdong Provincial
Development and Reform Commission [47], from January to September
in 2020, the response load of Guangdong Province is11.43 million kWh,
and the total subsidy expenditure reached 1.74 million yuan, deducing
to the average subsidy unit price at 0.152 CNY/kWh. To simultaneously
guarantee the benefit of ESP and reduce cost of prosumers through the
P2P transaction over the traditional P2G trading mode, subsidy price α is
identified as 0.1 CNY/kWh after searching for the subsidy price within
the range from 0.1 CNY/kWh to 0.15 CNY/kWh to guarantee the cost of
ICES less than that in the traditional P2G trading.
Constraints (1.6)-(1.9) represent internal price restrictions. In order
to incentivize the prosumers’ motivation for P2P energy trading and
prevent the direct transaction with local grid, internal trading price
should be within the range between FiT and the external price. However,
this leads to the cost payment of ESP during the transaction no matter
whether buying from or selling to the prosumers. Extra subsidy is given
to the ESP as financial compensation to support ESP profitable and
incentivize its participation activity. As for the government, mainte­
nance and operation cost for the ESS paid by prosumers is regarded as
the income of the government to balance the subsidy expenses. Price
signal determined by the ESP can be regarded as the tailored service

i,t
i,t
where Pi,t
RE , Pload , and PDR refer to the amount of the on-site renewable
energy, original load consumption and the shifted load consumption
i,t
through DR strategies, Pi,t
char , Pdischar refer to the charging and discharging

i,t
amount. Pi,t
imp and Pexp refer to the import and export electricity with the

local power grid. When the renewable energy is greater than the load
consumption, ICES can decide whether to charge the battery or export
the surplus energy to the local power grid. By contrast, when the
renewable energy is less than the load consumption, ICES can decide
whether to discharge from the battery or import the amount of the
shortage energy from the local power grid.
Demand response constraints:
In this study, DR follows the peak-shaving and load-shaping strate­
gies to realize the power stability and the grid protection. For the loadshifting demand response, it shaves the peak and fills the valley to
reduce the fluctuation with constant total electricity demand as a prerequisite, as shown in Constraint (3.1).
∑N ∑T i,t
P =0
(3.1)
i=1
t=1 DR

6

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

as different followers to establish a leader–follower Stackelberg game
model, which can be expressed as

Table 1
Parameters of the battery in the ESS [24].
SOCmin
0.1

SOCmax

Î⋅char

1/ηdisch

Battery capacity (kWh)

Pmax
char/disch (kWh)

0.9

0.95

1.05

800

200

G = {N; ρESP ; ρProsumer ; FESP ; FProsumer }

Stackelberg game theory model contains three elements: partici­
pants, strategies and revenue.

i,t
i,t
− 0.2Pi,t
load ≤ PDR ≤ 0.2Pload

(3.2)

i,t
i
Pi,t
load + PDR ≤ Pload,max

(3.3)

(1) Participates: ESP and prosumers.

N = {ESP, Prosumer1 , ⋯, Prosumeri }

i,t
Pi,t
load refers to the original load consumption. Pload,max refers to load

consumption of each prosumer at time step t.
Constraints (3.2)-(3.3) formulate that 80 % of the load consumption
is defined as the fixed load consumption that cannot be shifted, while the
remaining 20 % can be shifted to the off-peak period [49]. Furthermore,
in order to avoid the emerging peak, adjusted electricity demand after
demand response should be less than the maximum original load
consumption.
As for the peak-shaving strategy, electricity demand is limited to a
pre-specified value [50]. In this study, the load consumption should be
reduced during the peak period, which is expressed as constraints (3.4)
and (3.5).

∑T
t=1

PtDR ≤ 0.05 ×

Strategy of the prosumers (Follower) is the optimal power, including
demand response and charging/discharging condition, which can be
expressed as the vector form:
)
(
(5.4)
ρProsumer = PDR , Pchar/disch
(3) Objective: Revenue of participants is their respective objective
function.
Before solving the Stackelberg equilibrium solution, it is necessary to
prove its existence and uniqueness. Before proving the Stackelberg
equilibrium, three theorems below should be satisfied:
(1) Strategies set of the leader and the followers are compact, convex,
and nonempty.
(2) When the leader’s strategy is given, all followers exist a unique
optimum solution.
(3) When the strategy of the follower is given, the leader exists a
unique optimum solution.
The following process proves the unique Stackelberg equilibrium
solution that satisfies the three theorems above for the leader–follower
Stackelberg game theory model in this paper.
(1) According to the demand response and charging/discharging
mechanisms, both leader’s strategy and follower’s strategy satisfy con­
straints. Therefore, each participant’s strategy set is compact, convex,
and nonempty.
(2) Prove that after the leader’s strategy is given, there exists a
unique optimal solution for all followers with the minimum cost.
First, the first-order partial derivatives of the objective function of
the prosumer with respect to ICE are found as:

(3.4)
∑T
t=1

(3.5)

Ptload

where Pi,t
DR refers to the shiftable load under peak shaving strategy, and

Pi,t
load refers to the original load consumption.
According to a study [50], reduction amount in each time slot cannot
exceed 20 % of the load, while the total reduction amount cannot exceed
5 % of the total energy consumption according to the response target of
5 % of the annual maximum load [48].
Charging/discharging constraints:
Charging/discharging process has been formulated below:
SOCi,t × Cap = SOCi,t− 1 × Cap + ηchar × Pi,t
char −

1

ηdisch

× Pi,t
disch

(4.1)

i,t
where Pi,t
char and Pdisch refer to charging and discharging power before
being charged into battery and after being discharged from the battery.
SOCi,t refers to the state of charge of battery in prosumer i at time step t.
ηchar and ηdisch refer to the charging and discharging efficiency. Param­
eters of the ESS in the Stackelberg game theory are summarized in
Table 1 [24].
Maximum charging/discharging power and the SOC in each time slot
should be limited, which is restricted by Constraint (4.2) and (4.3),
respectively.

0 ≤ Ptchar/disch ≤ Pmax
char/disch

(4.2)

SOCmin ≤ SOCt ≤ SOCmax

(4.3)

(5.2)

(2) Strategies: Strategy of the ESP (Leader) is the buying and selling
price in 24 h, which can be expressed as the vector form:
(
)
ρESP = λs,ESP , λb,ESP
(5.3)

where Pi,t
DR refers to the shiftable load under load shifting strategy, and

PtDR ≤ 0.2 × Ptload

(5.1)

∂FProsumer
= λts,prosumer − be − 2ae Ptbattery
∂Ptbattery

(6.1)

(
)
∂F
( Prosumer ) = 2αe Ptload + PtDR + βe − λtb,prosumer
∂ Ptload + PtDR

(6.2)

Let the first-order partial derivatives equal to zero,

∂2 FProsumer
2

∂(Ptbattery )

= − 2ae

∂2 FProsumer,b
2

∂(Ptload + PtDR )

where Pmax
char/disch refers to the maximum charging/discharging power.

= − 2αe

(6.3)

(6.4)

Since the cost coefficients (ae , αe ) are positive, the second-order
partial derivatives are always less than zer0, so Ptbattery,0 and

SOCmin and SOCmax refer to the lower and upper state of charge limi­
tation of the battery.

(Ptload,0 +PtDR,0 ) are the maxima value points. However, constrained by
the upper and lower bounds of the strategy interval, the extrema value
points may fall on the boundary of the interval when the price changes.
Therefore, no matter how the power signal changes, the ICES has the
unique optimum solution when the price is determined.
(3) Prove that after the follower’s strategy is given, there exists a
unique optimal solution for the leader.
According to the above formula, the Hessian matrix of the leader’s

3.4. Stackelberg equilibrium
According to the above description of ICES, optimization of the
prosumer is based on the price signal from ESP, and the optimization
results will in turn affect the price offer. This energy trading process is
consistent with the dynamic game situation of leader–follower structure.
Therefore, ESP is considered as the leader, while prosumers are regarded
7

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 4. Genetic algorithm quadratic programming process for Stackelberg game theory model.

profit function is shown in:
⎡
⎤
1
−
0
⎢ 2a
⎥
e
⎢
⎥
H=⎢
⎥
⎣
1 ⎦
0
−
2αe

Stackelberg equilibrium. Assume that (ρ*ESP , ρ*Prosumer ) is the Stackelberg
equilibrium solution, the following constraints are required:
{
(
)
(
)
FESP ρ*ESP , ρ*Prosumer ≥ FESP ρESP , ρ*Prosumer
(
)
(
)
(8)
FProsumer ρ*ESP , ρ*Prosumer ≥ FProsumer ρ*ESP , ρProsumer

(7)

When reaching the Stackelberg equilibrium, it is impossible for either
participant to gain a greater benefit by unilaterally changing their
strategy.

It can be found that the Hessian matrix is negatively definite, so there
are extrema (maximum) value points. When the follower takes other
extreme value points, it can be proved that there is a unique optimal
solution for the leader in the same way, and the proof is similar to the
above process. In summary, the leader–follower Stackelberg game
model proposed in this paper has a unique Stackelberg equilibrium.
When all followers make the optimum response according to the leader’s
strategy, and the leader accepts this response, the game reaches

3.5. Model solving
Traditional optimization methods require all participants to publish
their detailed information to each other, such as load consumption,
8

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

charging/discharging condition, utility preference, etc. However, in­
formation is not transparent to each other in a competitive market, while
information transparency cannot protect prosumers’ privacy. Therefore,
with the support of the ESP, each prosumer can be optimized to avoid
information leakage and effectively protect information privacy and
security.
The genetic algorithm quadratic programming (GA-QP) distributed
equilibrium solving method is used for the bi-level Stackelberg game
theory model. The algorithm process of the GA-QP is shown in the flow
chart in Fig. 4. As a stochastic global search optimization method, ge­
netic algorithm starts from a group of initial internal prices populations,
and prosumer aggregators receive the price signal from the ESP and
participate in the ICES. Afterwards, prosumers will obtain the optimal
energy consumption profile, charging/discharging condition and power
trading with the ESP, so as to calculate cost of prosumers based on both
price and power signals. After going through random selection, cross­
over, and mutation operations, the Stackelberg equilibrium is judged in
each iteration. Finally, the objective function converges to reach the
optimal results with the identified internal price. Optimal price and
power condition in the upper level for this problem are identified as
well. The genetic algorithm can reduce the solution complexity and
improve the optimization-seeking ability. Given that the optimization
objective of the prosumers is a quadratic function, the quadratic pro­
gramming method can be used to solve the problem and improve the
solution speed and accuracy. By embedding quadratic programming into
the genetic algorithm, prosumers only need to accept the price signal
from the ESP and provide feedback on their power signals on demand
response, charging/discharging, and P2P energy trading. If participants
obtain the same optimal strategy in two adjacent iteration times, pro­
sumer and ESP’s objective functions during two consecutive iterations

Table 2
Case description.
DR strategy

Descriptions

Case 1
Case 2

No
Load-shifting
Peak-shaving
Load-shifting
Peak-shaving

Independent P2G trading without ESP and ESS
Independent P2G trading with ESP and ESS

Case 3

Aggregated P2P trading with ESP and ESS

∑T i,t
Pimp
SSR = 1 − ∑Tt=1 i,t
P
t=1 load

(10.2)

As for the environmental performance, net equivalent CO2 emission
(ECE) is formulated as:
)
(
∑T
i,t
(11)
ECE =
CEF × Pi,t
imp − Pexp
t=1
where CEF is the equivalent CO2 emission factor of the grid, which is
0.4263 kg CO2,e/kWh [52]. i refers to ith prosumer and t refers to tth time
step. Positive ECE indicates that the CO2 emission of the building ac­
tivity worsens the environment and accelerates climate issues. In
contrast, negative ECE indicates that the building activity reduces car­
bon emissions and delays climate change [53].
The economic performance of ICES is evaluated by the net cost/
benefit, which is the objective function of both prosumer and the ESP.
Net cost/benefit of the government (NCgovernment ), and the local power
grid (NIgrid ) can be expressed as:
NCgovernment =

(jth and (j-1)th iterations in in Equation (9)) do not change and are
considered to be converged as the equilibrium point according to the
previous definition of Stackelberg equilibrium. (ρ*ESP , ρ*Prosumer ), which
(
)
j
j
equals to the ρESP , ρProsumer , is the optimal strategy under the Stack­
elberg equilibrium.
( j
) (
)
1
= (ρ*ESP , ρ*Prosumer )
ρESP , ρjProsumer = ρj−ESP1 , ρj−Prosumer

Case

NI grid =

∑Number of prosumers ∑T
i=1

∑Number of prosumers ∑T
i=1

i,t
i,t
Cbattery
− Csubsidy

(12.1)

i,t
i,t
Eimp
× ToU t − Eexp
× FiT t

(12.2)

t=1

t=1

i,t
where Ci,t
battery and Csubsidy refer to the operation and maintenance cost

for the ESS and subsidy for DR from government. Etexp and Etimp refer to

grid export energy and grid import energy at time step t. FiTt and ToUt
refer to grid feed-in tariff and time-of-use grid electricity price for the
prosumer at time t.

(9)

(
)
(
)
j
j
j− 1 j− 1
where ρESP , ρProsumer and ρESP , ρProsumer refer to strategies of the ESP

3.7. Case analysis

and prosumer at the jth and (j-1)th iterations. At the equilibrium point,
no participant can individually change the strategy to obtain more
benefits.
In this study, the objective function of the follower (prosumer) is
quadratic, and the constraints are linear, which belongs to the simplest
nonlinear programming problem. Therefore, model in the lower level
can be assumed as the quadratic programming problem solved by the
Lagrange multiplier. CPLEX solver in MATLAB is used to deal with this
problem.

As shown in Table 2, three different cases have been comparatively
studied to explore the influence of ESP, ESS, DR, and P2P energy trading.
Case 1 operates under the traditional independent P2G trading without
ESP and ESS. In the Case 1, surplus renewable energy is directly sold to
the grid, while electricity demand in the shortage period is directly
supplied by the local power grid. External trading price with the local
power grid is the uniform pre-defined ToU price and FiT defined by the
local government. Considering that most regions adopt P2G trading
without ESP and ESS, the Case 1 is designed as the reference case for
comparison purposes. The Case 2 is the independent P2G trading with
ESP and ESS under different DR strategies. In the Case 2, surplus
renewable energy can be stored in the ESS, instead of being directly sold
to the grid. The demand shortage can be covered by the energy dis­
charged from battery during the shortage period. In addition, internal
trading prices between prosumers and ESP are optimally designed to
maximize the economic benefits of both prosumers and ESP. Technoeconomic performances of ESS, DR and ESP are considered in the Case
2 through the trading process. Contrary to the independent P2G trading
in the Case 2, P2P energy trading among prosumers is considered in the
Case 3 to promote the energy sharing, so as to improve the renewable
penetration and grid independence. The three cases are specifically
designed to study and compare the impact of P2P transactions, ESP and
ESS on techno-environmental-economic performance of each stake­
holder in a small-scale district community.

3.6. Performance assessment criteria
In this study, techno-economic-environmental performances of the
ICES under different strategies will be evaluated. Specifically, selfconsumption ratio (SCR) and self-sufficiency ratio (SSR) are used to
quantify renewable energy penetration and grid independence, respec­
tively. SCR indicates the ratio of the renewable energy consumed by the
prosumer to the total renewable energy generation, instead of being
exported to the power grid [51]. SSR represents the proportion of the
total load consumption covered by renewable energy, instead of being
covered by energy imported from the power grid [51]. Mathematical
formulas of SCR and SSR are expressed below:
∑T i,t
t=1 Pexp
SCR = 1 − ∑T i,t
(10.1)
t=1 PRE
9

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

4. Cost-benefit allocation and P2P pricing for participation
equality of each stakeholder

In addition to the energy quantity, lf can also characterize the impact
of the peak power on the total cost. Therefore, costs during off-peak
periods (Coff -peak ) and peak period (Cpeak ) are expressed as Equations
(14.2) and (14.3)

In respect to energy trading within the district community, each
stakeholder (like each owner of office, hotel and residential buildings,
energy sharing providers and utility grid) will care about its economic
incomes or payment. Each stakeholder is willing to participate in the
energy trading scheme only when they can get economic incomes or the
income can be equally allocated among each stakeholder. In this section,
different cost-benefit allocation models are developed and compared,
with respect to P2P energy trading price and preference satisfaction. The
objective is to identify the most optimal cost-benefit allocation model
and attract each stakeholders’ participation willingness.

Coff − peak = TC × lf ×
Cpeak = TC × lf ×

Tpeak
+ TC × (1 − lf )
T

(14.3)

periods (Cipeak,P2P ), as shown in Equations (14.4) and (14.5)
∫ t=off − peakperiod

In this method, cost is allocated based on the number of prosumers in
the community. It is considered as the simplest method to allocate the
total costs evenly distributed to each prosumer. Cost allocated to each
prosumer (Ci) in the ICES is formulated as:
TC
N

(14.2)

where TC refers to the total cost of ICES, Toff -peak and Tpeak refer to time
durations for the entire off-peak periods and peak periods, while T refers
to the total time duration during the simulation period.
Based on above analysis, cost allocation of each prosumer under P2P
trading are also distributed based on off-peak (Cioff -peak,P2P ) and peak

4.1. Cost-benefit allocation and P2P pricing based on the number of
prosumers

Ci =

Toff − peak
T

i
Coff
− peak =

t=0

∑N ∫ T

∫ t=peakperiod
i
Cpeak
=

(13)

Piload dt

i,t
i=1 t=1 Pload dt

t=0
∑N ∫ T
i=1

t=1

Piload dt
Pi,t
load dt

× Coff − peak

× Cpeak

(14.4)

(14.5)

where Toff -peak and Tpeak refer to time durations for the entire off-peak
periods and peak periods, while T refers to the total time duration

where TC is total cost, and N is the number of prosumers.
This can be implemented without requiring any measuring equip­
ment [54]. It is straightforward to understand and simple to compute.
However, the most significant disadvantage is that it does not consider
actual consumption and will lead to energy inequality, especially in
cases where some prosumers consume too much energy while others
consume very little energy.

during the simulation period. Pi,t
load refers to load power of prosumer i at
tth time step.
4.4. Cost-benefit allocation and P2P pricing based on symmetric Nash
bargaining

4.2. Cost-benefit allocation and P2P pricing based on load consumptions

A well-designed incentive mechanism needs to have the following
properties: individual rationality, feasibility, monotonicity, budget
balance, and Pareto optimality [55]. Nash bargaining theory has above
properties and can promise a fair incentive compensation scheme [56].
Since all three prosumers in the ICES are assumed to have the same
bargaining ability, symmetric Nash bargaining theory is used to incen­
tivize the cost-benefit allocation.
Symmetric Nash bargaining model for the cost-benefit allocation is
calculated as:
∑N
ω
i
i
Max : CostP2P =
(CP2P
+ Callocation
)
(15)
i=1

In this approach, cost allocation is based on load consumption of
each prosumer as a percentage of total energy consumption within a
time period. Cost allocated to each prosumer (Ci ) in the ICES is formu­
lated as:
∫ T i,t
TC ×
Pload dt
Ci = ∑N ∫ t=1
(14)
T
i,t
P
i=1 t=1 load dt
where TC is total cost, and N is the number of prosumers. T and Pi,t
load
refer to the operational time duration and the load power of prosumer i
at time step t.

s.t.
i
i
i
CP2P
+ Callocation
≥ CP2G(ESPandESS)
#

4.3. Cost-benefit allocation and P2P pricing based on time-of-use energy

∑N

The pre-identified ToU energy pricing is to differentiate energy pri­
ces between peak and off-peak hours. Rules for cost allocation follow
that total cost is firstly divided into cost for peak hours and off-peak
hours. Afterwards, cost allocation during peak hours and off-peak
hours for each prosumer is then proportionally distributed based on
their energy consumption. In multi-energy systems, generators are dis­
patched according to dynamic demand at different times. It is therefore
easy to calculate the costs incurred in different time periods from the
actual operational situation. However, it is not easy to differentiate costs
during the two periods in ICES, because energy generation by RESs is
non-dispatchable. In this paper, costs are allocated to two periods by
considering load factor, peak and off-peak time periods. lf is the load
factor, defined as the ratio between average energy consumption to the
peak demand, as shown in Equation (14.1):
∑T t
1
P
lf = T t=1 load
(14.1)
Ppeak

i=1

i
Callocation
=0

(15.1)
(15.2)

where ω represents the contribution rate of each prosumer. Since
contribution of each prosumer is assumed to be the same, ω equals to 13 as
the symmetric Nash bargaining.
4.5. P2P energy trading price and preference satisfaction
Based on the cost-benefit allocation, net income from the P2P energy
trading can be expressed as:
NI P2P = IncomeP2P,allocated − IncomeP2GwithESP

(16.1)

where IncomeP2P, allocated and IncomeP2G with ESP refer to the re-allocated
income of the P2P trading and the income of the P2G trading with the
ESP.
The trading price in the P2P energy trading can be expressed as:
10

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 5. (a) Electricity demand and renewable energy generation; (b) grid import/export power of the hotel, office, and residential buildings. (Note: grid import/
export power through traditional P2G trading (Case 1) is the difference between on-site renewable energy generation and electricity demand. Positive/negative
values in Fig. 5(b) represent the grid export/import power.)

NI i,t
λiP2P = ∑T P2Pi,t
t=1 PP2P

5. Results and discussion

(16.2)

5.1. On-site renewable generations and energy consumptions in buildings

After getting the P2P trading price, price-related constraints for each
prosumer are considered as:

i

Three 30-floor high-rise buildings are included in the ICES, i.e.,
hotel, office, and residential buildings in Guangzhou. After being
designed by the building design code/standard [57–59], each building
has its distinctive energy consumption characteristics on the hottest day
based on the weather data from Meteonorm [60], which can be assumed
as representative of community buildings [61]. Fig. 5(a) shows the
electricity demand and on-site renewable energy generation of the hotel,
office, and residential buildings to indicate their large spatial and tem­
poral differences. Different buildings exhibit varying energy consump­
tion behaviours with different peak value at different time step. For

(16.3)

λipro − γiP2P,i ≤ λiP2P
i

where Î»pro and Î»P2P refer to the Lagrange multiplier associated with the
demand response (DR), charging/discharging amount and P2P trading
amount.

Fig. 6. Convergence of P2G trading (Case 2) under: (a) load-shifting and (b) peak-shaving strategies, and P2P trading (Case 3) (c) load-shifting and (d) peakshaving strategies.
11

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 7. Impact of load-shifting strategy on electricity demand: (a) hotel, (c) office, and (e) residential buildings, and power interaction: (b) hotel, (d) office, and (f)
residential buildings in the Case 2 (P2G with ESS and ESP trading mode). (Note: baseline refers to the electricity demand through traditional P2G trading (Case 1) as
shown in Fig. 5 (a).)

example, the peak value of electricity demand in the office building is at
833 kW in the morning, while the peak value of electricity demand in the
residential building is at 440 kW and hotel building is at 499 kW at
night. The reason is that personnel activities in the office building pri­
marily occur during the daytime, while activities of residential and hotel
buildings mainly occur in the morning and evening.
Fig. 5(b) shows the grid import/export power of hotel, office, and
residential buildings through the traditional P2G energy trading. With
the integration of the renewable energy, the maximum grid import
power simultaneously changes with the variation of the renewable en­
ergy generation. For example, in the office building, compared to the
maximum grid import power at 839 kW at 10:00 AM without renewable
energy (as shown in Fig. 5(a)), the maximum grid import power de­
creases to 577 kW and the time is shifted to 14:00 PM (as shown in Fig. 5
(b)). This is due to the renewable energy (at 247 kW) generated at 14:00
PM, which partially covers the electricity demand at 824 kW (as shown
in Fig. 5 (a)). Therefore, with the participation of the renewable energy,
mutual influence between the electricity demand and renewable energy
generation over time leads to the disparity in the supply–demand con­
dition of the three buildings, which highlights the considerable potential
for energy sharing to mitigate spatial and temporal mismatches in the

supply–demand dynamics.
5.2. Comparative analysis on algorithm convergence
Traditional P2G trading between prosumers and local power grid has
been shown above. In order to maximize the benefit of prosumers and
energy sharing provider (ESP as the intermediary between prosumers
and local power grid), optimal P2G and P2P energy trading with the ESP
and ESS are identified based on the Stackelberg game theory model
through genetic algorithm quadratic programming (GA-QP). Fig. 6
shows the convergence process of the GA-QP for P2G and P2P trading
under peak-shaving strategy and load-shifting strategy, respectively. As
shown in Fig. 6, both the P2P and P2G trading converge within 150 it­
erations. This indicates the feasibility of the GA-QP in optimal P2G and
P2P energy trading processes.
Furthermore, P2P energy trading (Case 3) converges more slowly
with more iteration numbers than P2G (Case 2). For example, compared
to the P2G trading with around 70 iteration times (as shown in Fig. 6 (a)
and (b)), iteration of P2P trading reaches to 100 times (as shown in Fig. 6
(c) and (d)). The reason is that, compared to P2G energy trading, P2P
trading with both internal and external trading processes among
12

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 8. Impact of peak-shaving strategy on electricity demand: (a) hotel, (c) office, and (e) residential buildings, and power interaction: (b) hotel building, (d) office
building, and (f) residential building in the Case 2 (P2G with ESS and ESP trading mode). (Note: baseline refers to the electricity demand through traditional P2G
trading (Case 1) as shown in Fig. 5(a).)

prosumers results in heavier computational loads. Overall, the GA-QP
significantly solves the P2G and P2P trading based on Stackelberg
game theory model with good convergence characteristics and the
collaborative optimization of each object.

through P2G energy trading, respectively. From the prosumer’s
perspective, DR strategies can effectively reduce the peak value of
electricity demand during peak periods. For example, for both strate­
gies, peak values of the electricity demand in hotel, office and residential
buildings decrease from 440 to 396 kW by 10 % (as shown in Fig. 7(a)
and Fig. 8(a)), from 839 to 755 kW by 10 % (as shown in Fig. 7(c) and
Fig. 8(c)), and from 500 to 449 kW by 10 % (as shown in Fig. 7(e) and
Fig. 8(e)), respectively. The reason for reduction on the maximum
electricity demand is achieved by shifting a proportion of electricity
demand from peak periods to off-peak periods, resulting in a more stable
electricity demand by peak shifting and valley filling to mitigate grid
congestion.
Furthermore, Fig. 7(b)(d)(f) and Fig. 8(b)(d)(f) show the impact of
load-shifting and peak-shaving strategies on power interaction with
local power grid and ESS. Compared to the traditional P2G energy
trading, ESS has been proven to be effective in reducing grid import
power by discharging from the battery during high-demand periods. For
instance, in the hotel building, compared to the traditional P2G trading
with the maximum grid import power at 440 kW (as shown in Fig. 5(b)),
P2G trading with ESS decreases the maximum grid import power to 344
kW (reduced by 22 %) (as shown in Fig. 7(b)). The reason for the
reduction of the grid import power is due to the battery discharging

5.3. Performance assessment of the Stackelberg game theory model-based
ICES
In this section, techno-economic-environmental performances are
comprehensively evaluated for the optimal energy dispatch strategy and
price setting, including battery charging/discharging in ESS, DR stra­
tegies (load-shifting and peak-shaving strategies), and internal trading
price between prosumers and ESP. Multiple criteria include selfconsumption ratio (SCR) and self-sufficiency ratio (SSR) for technical
performance, equivalent CO2 emission (ECE) for environmental per­
formance, and cost/benefit of all participants for economic perfor­
mance. Overall, the motivation of this section is to provide the
performance assessment for the formulated energy trading network with
ESP, concerning P2G/P2P energy interaction modes with different
pricing and DR strategies.
Fig. 7(a)(c)(e) and Fig. 8(a)(c)(e) depict the impact of load-shifting
and peak-shaving strategies on the dynamic electricity demand
13

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 9. Impact of load-shifting strategy on electricity demand: (a) hotel, (c) office, and (e) residential buildings, and power interaction:(b) hotel building, (d) office
building, and (f) residential building in the Case 3 (P2P trading with ESS and ESP).

power at 52 kW (as shown in Fig. 7(b)), and the DR strategy can further
reduce the electricity demand by 44 kW (as shown in Fig. 7(a)). Overall,
the implementation of DR strategies directly addresses grid congestion
by reducing the electricity demand, while the integration of the ESS
resolves temporal mismatches between on-site renewable energy and
electricity demand to further alleviate grid power congestion. The
combined effects of DR and ESS together contribute to the reliability and
robustness of grid power stability.
Based on the above analysis, despite the temporal mismatch being
partially solved through DR strategies and ESS, spatial mismatch still
needs to be addressed through P2P trading to further mitigate the grid
pressure. Therefore, the impact of P2P energy trading on local energy
sharing and grid power interaction will be analysed in this section.
Fig. 9 and Fig. 10 demonstrate the impact of P2P energy trading
(Case 3) on dynamic electricity demand and power interaction under
load-shifting strategy and peak-shaving strategy, respectively. Although
P2P energy trading does not further reduce the peak value of electricity
demand from the user side, it does additionally contribute to decreasing
the maximum grid import power through the support from other pro­
sumers, especially for the office building (as the buyer in P2P trading
among prosumers) that can utilize surplus renewable energy from hotel
and residential buildings (as the seller in P2P trading). For instance, in
the office building, compared to the P2G (Case 2) with the maximum

grid import power at 514 kW (as shown in Fig. 7(b)), P2P trading (Case
3) reduces the grid import power to 466 kW (reduced by 9.3 %) (as
shown in Fig. 9(b)). The reason is that, according to the simulation re­
sults, P2P energy trading supplies the surplus renewable energy at 72
kW from hotel and residential buildings to the office building to reduce
the grid import power of the office building. Overall, P2P energy trading
promotes the direct utilization of the on-site renewable energy and
improves the renewable penetration, which can address the spatial
mismatch among prosumers to reduce the energy reliance on the local
power grid.
The previous section has covered the dynamic power interactions
with the local power grid and ESS under different DR strategies. Fig. 11
provides the impact of DR strategies on the total grid import and export
energy, and Fig. 12 shows the technical performance to comprehen­
sively evaluate the renewable penetration and grid independence based
on the grid import/export energy (as shown in Fig. 11). Compared to the
P2G energy trading, the P2P energy trading significantly enhances the
self-consumption of renewable energy. For instance, under the loadshifting strategy, compared to the P2G energy trading with SCR at
0.60, P2P energy trading further improves the SCR to 0.70 (as shown in
Fig. 12(a)). The reason is that, compared to the P2G energy trading with
total grid export energy at 8937 kWh, P2P energy trading reduces the
total grid export energy to 6780 kWh (by 24 %) (as shown in Fig. 11(a)).
14

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 10. Impact of peak-shaving strategy on electricity demand: (a) hotel, (c) office, and (e) residential buildings, and power interaction:(b) hotel building, (d) office
building, and (f) residential building in the Case 3 (P2P trading with ESS and ESP).

Furthermore, compared to the P2G energy trading, the P2P energy
trading also significantly reduces the total grid import energy and en­
hances the self-sufficiency of the ICES. For instance, under the loadshifting strategy, compared to the P2G energy trading with SSR at
0.62, P2P energy trading further improves the SSR to 0.74 (as shown in
Fig. 12(a)). The reason is that, compared to the P2G energy trading with
total grid import power at 7610 kWh, P2P energy trading totally imports
5269 kWh (reduced by 30.7 %) from local power grid (as shown in
Fig. 11(a)).
Furthermore, compared to the P2G trading, although P2P trading
increases the self-sufficiency of the ICES as discussed above, individual
self-sufficiency of hotel and residential buildings to cover their own
electricity demands significantly decreases. From the individual
perspective as shown in Fig. 12(b), compared to SSR of hotel building at
0.79 and residential building at 0.64 through P2G trading, the P2P en­
ergy trading will reduce the SSR to 0.48 for the hotel building and to
0.62 for the residential building. The reason is that, compared to the
total grid import energy of the hotel building at 1214 kWh and the
residential building at 1859 kWh through P2G energy trading, the P2P
energy trading increases the total grid import energy of the hotel
building to 1600 kWh (by 31.8 %) and the residential building to 1981
kWh (by 6.2 %), respectively (as shown in Fig. 11(a)).
It should be noted that, in terms of hotel and residential buildings,

the increased grid import energy is due to the decrease in battery
charging amount in the ESS. Compared to the P2G trading with surplus
renewable energy stored in the ESS for the self-sufficiency, P2P energy
trading utilizes the surplus renewable energy to directly support the
office building, instead of storing in the ESS. This is not beneficial to the
hotel and residential buildings since they need to import more energy
from the local power grid with less energy discharged from battery.
Furthermore, in terms of the office building, compared to the
increased grid import power of hotel and residential buildings with
lower electricity price during off-peak periods, demand shortage period
of the office building mainly occurs during peak periods with high
electricity price. P2P energy trading can significantly reduce the grid
import energy of the office building, as well as the total cost of the ICES.
These adjustments compromise profits of hotel and residential buildings
with more reduction in grid import energy of the office building (totally
reduced by 2849 kWh) during peak periods, leading to the minimum
collective cost of the ICES. Overall, compared to the P2G trading, P2P
energy trading can effectively improve self-sufficiency and significantly
reduce the total cost of the ICES. However, from the perspective of each
individual householder, self-sufficiency of the energy sellers (e.g., hotel
and residential buildings) is decreased, while the self-sufficiency of the
energy buyer (e.g., office building) will be increased.
Regarding the environmental performance, Table 3 lists the
15

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 11. Total grid import and export energy: (a) load-shifting strategy; (b) peak-shaving strategy. (Note: ICES refers to the integrated community energy system
including hotel, office, and residential buildings.)

Fig. 12. (a) Self-consumption ratio (SCR) and self-sufficiency ratio (SSR) of the ICES; (b) SSR of each prosumer. (Note: ICES refers to the integrated community
energy system including hotel, office, and residential buildings.)

16

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Table 3
Net power and equivalent CO2 emissions of each prosumer and ICES under DR strategies.
Strategy
Case

Load-shifting strategy
Case 1
Case 2

Hotel
Office
Residential
ICES

Net energy (kWh)/ECE (kg CO2,e)under load-shifting strategy
− 1685/-718
− 1885/-804
− 1007/-429
1650/703
1714/731
¡327/-139
− 1993/-850
− 2166/-923
1183/504
− 2028/-865
− 2337/-996
¡2517/-1073

Peak-shaving strategy
Case 1
Case 2

Case 3

Case 3

Net energy (kWh)/ECE (kg CO2,eunder peak-shaving strategy
− 1685/-718
− 1597/-681
− 467/-199
1650/703
2177/928
− 401/-171
− 1993/-850
− 1907/-813
− 644/-275
− 2028/-865
− 1327/-566
¡1512/-645

(Note: Net energy refers to the difference between the total grid import energy and total grid export energy. Positive value of the net energy refers to the net grid import
energy, and negative value of the net energy refers to the net grid export energy. Positive value of the ECE refers to the carbon emission, and negative value of the ECE
refers to the carbon reduction.)

assessment of equivalent CO2 emissions (ECE) during the operational
stage. The role of the office building transforms from a carbon-positive
building (under traditional P2G trading in the Case 1) to a carbonnegative building (under P2P energy trading in the Case 3). For
instance, in the office building, compared to the traditional P2G energy
trading with ECE at 703 kg, P2P energy trading reduces the ECE to − 139
kg, leading to the net carbon reduction at 842 kg. The reduction of ECE is
due to the role transformation of the office building from the net grid
importer (net grid import energy at 1650 kWh) under the traditional
P2G energy trading to the net grid exporter (net grid export energy at
− 327 kWh) under the P2P energy trading.
Moreover, in terms of P2P energy trading of the ICES, the loadshifting strategy shows a more obvious carbon reduction through than
the peak-shaving strategy. Specifically, compared to the peak-shaving
strategy with ECE at − 645 kg, the load-shifting strategy further re­
duces the ECE to − 1073 kg. The reason is that the load-shifting strategy
with the net grid export energy at − 2517 kWh exports more energy than
the peak-shaving strategy with the net grid export energy at − 1512
kWh. Therefore, from the environmental perspective, P2P energy
trading with the load-shifting strategy can greatly reduce the energyrelated operational carbon emissions.
The analysis above has evaluated the technical and environmental
performance of the P2P energy trading. Cost-benefit of all participants,
including the government, ESP, prosumers, and the local power grid,
will be discussed from the economic perspective. Fig. 13 and Fig. 14
show the internal trading price between ESP and prosumers under P2G
trading and P2P energy trading, respectively. Compared with the P2G
trading, P2P energy trading leads to a higher internal selling price than
the Feed-in Tariff (FiT). Take hotel building for example, compared with
the internal selling price of the hotel building at 0.435 CNY/kWh (as
shown in Fig. 13(a)) through the P2G energy trading, the internal selling
price of the hotel building increases to 0.6 CNY/kWh (as shown in
Fig. 14(a)) at around 12:00 AM and 15:00 PM when the P2P energy
process occurs. The reason is that ESP wants to attract prosumers to sell
their surplus renewable energy to the ESP instead of participating P2P
energy trading by increasing the selling price.
Furthermore, during the demand shortage period, compared with the
P2G energy trading, P2P energy trading results in a lower internal
buying price than the Time-of-Use (ToU) price. For instance, in the office
building, compared with the internal buying price at 1.2 CNY/kWh (as
shown in Fig. 13(c)) through the P2G energy trading, P2P energy trading
decreases the internal buying price to 0.65 CNY/kWh (as shown in
Fig. 14(c)) at around 12:00 AM. The reason is that ESP wants to attract
office building to buy electricity from the ESP instead of through the P2P
energy trading by decreasing the buying price, since the energy demand
of the office building reaches its peak at around 12:00 AM with
maximum profit margin. Overall, the pricing strategy employed by the
ESP does not exclusively benefit either prosumers or the ESP itself. This
phenomenon serves as a vivid demonstration of the principles of game
theory, in which both parties involved in a game relationship endeavour
to prevent the continuous maximization of the other party’s interests.
In terms of the cost-benefit of each participant, each participant’s
revenue through different trading modes (as shown in Table 4) will be

specifically discussed in this subsection. Although the revenue scenarios
in Table 4 ensures the maximum profits for both the ESP and ICES, it is
evident that the distribution of benefits is currently unfair, particularly
for hotel and residential buildings. For example, compared with the
benefit of hotel building at 219 CNY and residential building at 584
CNY, P2P energy trading decreases the benefits of hotel and residential
buildings to 42 CNY and 182 CNY, respectively, resulting in the un­
fairness of hotel and residential buildings with less income after
participating in P2P energy trading. The reason for this imbalanced or
unfair benefit allocation is that P2P transactions only focused on
reducing the overall cost by considering P2P electricity trading volumes,
rather than considering the actual P2P transaction price. Overall,
maximum overall benefits of ICES can not necessarily guarantee the fair
profit distribution among prosumers, and P2P trading should strive to
keep a balance between individual interest and overall benefits by
enabling efficient resource allocation and fostering collaboration.
Otherwise, the P2P energy sharing fails to be practically implemented
due to the participation unwillingness of each stakeholder.
Furthermore, the successful operation of the ESP and the active
participation of prosumers in P2P trading heavily depends on severe
fiscal spending provided by the government. For instance, under the P2P
trading, the government requires to pay 910 CNY under load-shifting
strategy and 1175 CNY under peak-shaving strategy for subsidy. This
is due to the fact that, under the lower internal buying price than ToU
price and higher internal selling price than FiT price, the ESP will suffer
from economic losses if there is no any subsidy from the government.
However, without these beneficial internal prices, prosumers are not
willing to engage in P2P energy trading since they would not receive any
benefits compared to the traditional P2G energy trading mode.
Moreover, the implementation of P2P energy trading resulted in a
significant decrease in revenue for the local power grid. For example,
revenue of local power grid substantially decreased from 2394 CNY
under traditional P2G energy trading to 687 CNY under load-shifting
and 322 CNY under peak-shaving strategies through P2P energy
trading. The reduction in revenue is due to the reduction of the grid
import and export energy through P2P energy trading (as shown in
Fig. 12). Overall, although the revenue of the local power grid reduces,
intermittency and uncertainty of renewable energy generation with the
great instability of the local power grid can be greatly alleviated, leading
to a less security risk for the grid. Therefore, the reduced revenue with
fewer transactions with the local power grid can be assumed as a pro­
tection for the local power grid infrastructure to avoid grid congestion
and fluctuation.
5.4. Cost-benefit allocation for P2P energy trading price and preference
satisfaction
Regarding to the unfair cost-benefit allocation among each stake­
holder in Table 4, this section aims to investigate the fair cost-benefit
allocation among each stakeholder. Cost-benefit allocation and P2P
pricing are introduced in Section 4 for participation equality of each
stakeholder. The rational distribution based on different methods is
shown in Table 5. Drawbacks of M1 to M3 lie in their failure to consider
17

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 13. Real-time internal trading prices between the ESP and (a) hotel building, (c) office building and (e) residential building under load-shifting strategy; and (b)
hotel building, (d) office building and (f) residential building under peak-shaving strategy through P2G trading (Case 2).

equitable distribution, thereby neglecting to ensure the increased profit
for each prosumer, and only M4 guaranteed the profit increase of each
prosumer. For instance, hotel and residential buildings in M1 to M3 need
to pay for extra cost (negative value in Table 4), while they can earn 219
CNY and 584 CNY even through traditional P2G energy trading. This is
due to the high dependence on the overall benefit in M1 to M3. In other
words, individual revenues are in line with overall benefits in M1 to M3.
This will greatly dampen prosumer’s enthusiasm for participating in the

P2P energy trading. Thus, the utilization of the Nash bargaining (M4) for
cost-benefit allocation is more reasonable since it ensures both the
overall benefits and preservation of individual interests through fair
allocation.
Based on the allocation results from the Nash bargaining, results
show that P2P energy trading price of the hotel, office and residential
building can be defined as 0.42 CNY/kWh, 0.19 CNY/kWh and 0.36
CNY/kWh under load-shifting strategy, while 0.59 CNY/kWh, 0.15
18

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Fig. 14. Real-time internal trading prices between the ESP and (a) hotel building, (c) office building, and (e) residential building under load-shifting strategy; and (b)
hotel building, (d) office building, and (f) residential building under peak-shaving strategy through P2P trading (Case 3).

CNY/kWh and 0.46 CNY/kWh under peak-shaving strategy. P2P trading
prices of the hotel and residential buildings are higher than the office
building. This is reasonable since they comprise their interests with
more grid import power in order to achieve the overall maximum benefit
of ICES (as shown in Fig. 12 and has been discussed in more details in
Section 5.3). P2P trading price for the office building is notably lower
which can be assumed as compensation, since office building benefits
the most in the P2P trading market.

As for the preference satisfaction, Fig. 15 depicts the energy reallocation after considering the influence of P2P trading prices on P2P
trading amounts. When the P2P transaction price of hotel (0.59 CNY/
kWh) exceeds that of residential building (0.46 CNY/kWh), P2P trans­
action amount automatically shifts towards the residential building,
especially under the peak-shaving strategy. For example, when the P2P
trading price is limited, P2P trading amount of the hotel building de­
creases from 812 to 550 kWh (reduced by 32 %) under the load-shifting
19

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

Table 4
Cost-benefit of each participant under different trading modes and DR strategies.

Case 1(Traditional P2G)
Case 2 (P2G
Loadwith ESS and
shifting
ESP)
Peakshaving
Case 3 (P2P)
Loadshifting
Peakshaving

Prosumer（CNY)
Hotel
Office

Residential

Grid (CNY)
Hotel
Office

Residential

Sum
(Grid)

Government (CNY)
Hotel
Office
Residential

ESP (CNY)
Hotel
Office

219
292

− 3197
− 3160

584
632

− 219
− 384

3197
3324

− 584
− 490

2394
2450

\
− 272

\
− 639

\
− 601

364

\
476

\
458

457

− 2812

830

− 300

2943

− 758

1885

− 519

− 535

− 579

363

404

507

− 312

− 649

2

201

580

− 94

687

− 245

− 307

− 358

355

376

450

42

− 672

182

− 96

703

− 285

322

− 321

− 540

− 314

375

508

416

Residential

(Note: Positive value refers to the income and negative value refers to the expense.).

varies significantly, which is strongly influenced by the P2P trading
price. By analysing feedback from buyers and sellers in P2P energy
trading, more targeted and effective P2P trading strategies can be
developed, leading to a realignment for subsequent pricing decisions
and a fair balance within the P2P trading market.

Table 5
Comparison on different cost-benefit allocation methods.
Cost-allocation
method

DR strategy

Hotel
(CNY)

Office
(CNY)

Residential
(CNY)

Method 1

Loadshifting
Peakshaving
Loadshifting
Peakshaving
Loadshifting
Peakshaving
Loadshifting
Peakshaving

− 320

− 320

− 320

− 149

− 149

− 149

− 273

− 440

− 246

− 127

− 206

− 115

− 211

− 649

− 100

− 94

− 313

− 41

718

− 2734

1058

888

− 2564

1228

Method 2

Method 3

Method 4

5.5. Research limitations and future outlooks
Throughout the P2P energy trading with DR strategies and ESS for
the distributed renewable energy system, prosumers will be more
willing to participate in the energy sharing framework. Moreover,
frontier guidelines are provided on dynamic P2P energy pricing and
dispatchment for synergistic P2P sharing strategies, energy manage­
ment, and economic policy for utility grid, energy sharing provider, and
even P2P prosumers, so as to promote low-carbon and sustainable
transformations. However, some limitations still should be noticed:
(1) Pre-regulatory roles and uncertainty analysis on renewable en­
ergy are lacked in this research. Demand response strategies in this
research only explored their impacts on energy management and price
setting. Hour-ahead or day-ahead considering climatic conditions and
renewable energy generation prediction has not been considered for preregulatory controls [62]. Meanwhile, deterministic demand and pro­
duction are simulated without considering stochastic load and uncer­
tainty in renewable generations;
(2) Government financial support for the self-adaptive trading mode
and static pricing mechanism should be further explored for a more
comprehensive analysis. Compared to static power pricing with more
stable and consistent economic incentives and higher market trans­
parency, dynamic power price significantly increases the complexity
and potential uncertainty. Although the current economic model relies
on government support to sustain ESP’s profits and encourage prosumer
participation in the early developmental stage, a more sustainable
approach is needed for the long-term P2P pricing mechanism instead of

(Note: cost-benefit allocation methods 1–4 are applied for P2P trading in Case
3.).

strategy and from 794 to 544 kWh (reduced by 32 %) under peakshaving strategy. However, for the residential building, P2P trading
amount increases from 873 to 1017 kWh (increased by 16 %) under the
load-shifting strategy and from 823 to 1023 kWh (increased by 24 %)
under the peak-shaving strategy, respectively. The decrease in P2P
trading amount of the hotel building is due to the higher P2P trading
price (0.59 CNY/kWh), while the increased P2P trading amount of
residential building is attributed to the lower P2P trading price (0.46
CNY/kWh), leading to office building with more energy trades with
residential building. Overall, despite of the relative stable of the overall
P2P trading amount, redistribution of internal P2P trading amount

Fig. 15. Impact of the P2P trading price on the P2P energy amount under: (a) the load-shifting strategy; (b) the peak-shaving strategy.
20

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388

purely depending on the local government.
(3) Computational complexity with increasing prosumers will
become computationally challenging. As the number of prosumers in­
creases in reality, power and information transmission (such as price,
power signals, etc.) will also increase, leading to the convergence
problem of the genetic algorithm with higher iteration times.
Based on the above limitations, future research will focus on:
(1) uncertainty prediction on load consumption and renewable
generation for more accurate predictions and robust operation, so as to
improve the reliability and effectiveness of the ESP;
(2) sustainable business models and static pricing mechanisms to
reduce dependence on government support and incentivize prosumers’
participation for a more stable trading market;
(3) alternative optimization techniques and scalable computational
methods like deep learning to enable accurate and efficient handling of
the increasing computational demands.

possibility for P2P energy trading operation. Compared to traditional
P2G energy trading, P2P energy trading integrated with DR strategies
and ESS under the control of the ESP can enhance the techno-economicenvironmental performances. Results can provide frontier guidelines on
the P2P trading design for prosumers, policy makers, and energy man­
ager to collaboratively develop a more sustainability energy system.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Xiaojun Yu: Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal analysis,
Investigation, Methodology, Resources, Software, Writing – original
draft. Deng Pan: Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal analysis,
Investigation, Methodology, Resources, Writing – review & editing.
Yuekuan Zhou: Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal analysis,
Supervision, Methodology, Writing – review & editing.
Declaration of competing interest

6. Conclusions

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence
the work reported in this paper.

In this study, Stackelberg game theory-based P2P energy trading
market is established in the ICES to explore the P2P energy trading
mechanism. In order to promote active participation, P2P energy trading
prices are determined by fair cost-benefit allocation based on the
maximum total income of ESP and minimum total cost of prosumers.
Moreover, prosumers’ preference satisfaction on the P2P trading price is
also discussed to incentivize their motivation to participate in P2P en­
ergy trading. It has been proved that P2P energy trading demonstrates
superior performance across techno-environmental-economic aspects.
Main conclusions are summarized as follows:
(1) Compared with the traditional P2G energy trading, P2P energy
trading shows superiorities in improving techno-economicenvironmental performances. P2P energy trading under the peakshaving strategy reduces the grid import power by 47 % (from 9945
kW to 5269 kW). Meanwhile, P2P energy trading improves the selfconsumption ratio (proportion of the renewable energy consumed
within the system) from 0.46 to 0.70, and the self-sufficiency ratio
(proportion of the electricity demand covered by renewable energy)
from 0.5 to 0.74. Moreover, compared with the traditional P2G energy
trading with − 865 kg equivalent CO2 emission (ECE), the P2P energy
trading can reduce ECE to − 1073 kg, leading to over 24 % reduction in
carbon emissions.
(2) The implementation of P2P energy trading can reduce the cost of
prosumers and contribute to the grid power stability, while the cost
decreasing magnitude depends on the peak-shaving strategy and the
load-shifting strategy. With the customized internal trading price be­
tween prosumer and ESP, 2394 CNY is paid to the local power grid via
the traditional P2G energy trading, while cost of prosumers is decreased
to 959 CNY and 448 CNY under the peak-shaving strategy and the loadshifting strategy, respectively. From grid’s perspective, although the
revenue reduces, grid congestion caused by the intermittency and un­
certainty of the renewable energy generation can be greatly alleviated
with a relatively stable operation condition.
(3) Based on the Nash bargaining, P2P energy trading prices of hotel,
office, and residential building are identified as 0.59 CNY/kWh, 0.15
CNY/kWh, and 0.46 CNY/kWh. When the preference satisfaction is
considered, P2P trading amounts of hotel building totally decreased by
262 kWh and 250 kWh under the load-shifting and peak-shaving stra­
tegies, while P2P trading amount of residential building increased by
144 kWh and 187 kWh, respectively. Re-allocation amount of P2P in­
ternal trading amount is closely linked to the trading price, revealing
that the prosumers’ preference satisfaction is inclined towards pur­
chasing energy from lower trading prices. This provides the subsequent
pricing guidance for the P2P energy trading.
Overall, the spatio-temporal dissimilarity between the load con­
sumption and renewable energy generation and complementarity of the
load consumption characteristics among prosumers provide the

Acknowledgement
This work was supported by National Development and Reform
Commission (2023-Dual Carbon-3), Natural Science Foundation Project
(General Project)-Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Fund
(2414050003253), Regional joint fund youth fund project
(2022A1515110364, P00038-1002), Guangdong Basic and Applied
Basic Research Foundation 2023 (2023A04J1035, P00121-1003), Joint
Funding of Institutes and Enterprises in 2023 (2023A03J0104, P000541003,1004), Green Tech Fund in the Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region ‘Developing low-cost PEM electrolysis at scale by optimizing
transport components and electrode interfaces’ (GTF202220034). This
work is also supported/funded by the Guangzhou-HKUST(GZ) Joint
Funding Program (No. 2024A03J0630). HKUST(GZ)-enterprise coop­
eration project (R00017-2001), HKUST(GZ)-enterprise cooperation
project ‘Research on Development of Vehicle-City-Network and Electric
Vehicle Charging Pile Industry’ (R00114-2001). HKUST(GZ)-enterprise
cooperation project (R00017-2001), HKUST(GZ)-enterprise cooperation
project ‘Optimization Design of Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cell
Plate’ (R00072-2001), HKUST(GZ)-enterprise cooperation project
‘Next-generation radiant cooling for built environment’ (R00079-2001).
This research is supported by The Hong Kong University of Science and
Technology (Guangzhou) startup grant (G0101000059). This work was
also supported in part by the Project of Hetao Shenzhen-Hong Kong
Science and Technology Innovation Cooperation Zone (HZQB-KCZYB2020083).
References
[1] B. Jiang, Z.Q. Sun, M.Q. Liu, China’s energy development strategy under the lowcarbon economy, Energy 35 (11) (2010) 4257–4264.
[2] Y. Zhou, Worldwide carbon neutrality transition? Energy efficiency, renewable,
carbon trading and advanced energy policies, Energ. Rev. 2 (2) (2023) 100026.
[3] Y. Zhou, Low-carbon transition in smart city with sustainable airport energy
ecosystems and hydrogen-based renewable-grid-storage-flexibility, Energ. Rev. 1
(1) (2022) 100001.
[4] Y. Zhou, A co-simulated material-component-system-district framework for
climate-adaption and sustainability transition, Renew. Sust. Energ. Rev. 192
(2024) 114184.
[5] Y. Zhou, S. Zheng, J. Lei, A cross-scale modelling and decarbonisation
quantification approach for navigating Carbon Neutrality Pathways in China,
Energ. Convers. Manage. 297 (2023) 117733.
[6] C.S. Wang, C.X. Lv, P. Li, G.Y. Song, S.Q. Li, X.D. Xu, J.Z. Wu, Modeling and
optimal operation of community integrated energy systems: A case study from
China, Appl. Energy 230 (2018) 1242–1254.
[7] Y. Zhou, Transition towards carbon-neutral districts based on storage techniques
and spatiotemporal energy sharing with electrification and hydrogenation, Renew.
Sust. Energ. Rev. 162 (2022) 112444.

21

X. Yu et al.

Solar Energy 270 (2024) 112388
[34] Z. Li, L. Wu, Y. Xu, L. Wang, N.J.A.E. Yang, Distributed tri-layer risk-averse
stochastic game approach for energy trading among multi-energy microgrids, Appl.
Energy 331 (2023) 120282.
[35] S. Mohagheghi, F. Yang, B. Falahati, Impact of demand response on distribution
system reliability, IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting (2011) 1–7.
[36] Y. Zhou, Demand response flexibility with synergies on passive PCM walls, BIPVs,
and active air-conditioning system in a subtropical climate, Renew. Energ. 199
(2022) 204–225.
[37] A. Asadinejad, K. Tomsovic, Optimal use of incentive and price based demand
response to reduce costs and price volatility, Electr. Pow. Syst. Res. 144 (2017)
215–223.
[38] A.G. Kök, K. Shang, Ş.J.M.S. Yücel, Impact of electricity pricing policies on
renewable energy investments and carbon emissions, Manag. Sci. 64 (1) (2018)
131–148.
[39] T. Lohmann, S. Rebennack, Tailored Benders Decomposition for a Long-Term
Power Expansion Model with Short-Term Demand Response, Manag. Sci. 63 (6)
(2017) 2027–2048.
[40] K. Herter, Residential implementation of critical-peak pricing of electricity, Energy
Policy 35 (4) (2007) 2121–2130.
[41] N. Liu, X.H. Yu, C. Wang, C.J. Li, L. Ma, J.Y. Lei, Energy-Sharing Model With PriceBased Demand Response for Microgrids of Peer-to-Peer Prosumers, IEEE Trans.
Power Syst. 32 (5) (2017) 3569–3583.
[42] L. Ma, N.A. Liu, J.H. Zhang, W. Tushar, C. Yuen, Energy Management for Joint
Operation of CHP and PV Prosumers Inside a Grid-Connected Microgrid: A Game
Theoretic Approach, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 12 (5) (2016) 1930–1942.
[43] T. Morstyn, A. Teytelboym, M.D.J.I.T.o.S.G. McCulloch, Bilateral contract
networks for peer-to-peer energy trading, IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid 10(2)
(2018) 2026-2035.
[44] J.C. Do Prado, W.J.I.T.o.S.E. Qiao, A stochastic bilevel model for an electricity
retailer in a liberalized distributed renewable energy market, IEEE Transactions on
Sustainable Energy 11(4) (2020) 2803-2812.
[45] W. Tushar, T.K. Saha, C. Yuen, T. Morstyn, M.D. McCulloch, H.V. Poor, K.L. Wood,
A motivational game-theoretic approach for peer-to-peer energy trading in the
smart grid, Appl. Energy 243 (2019) 10–20.
[46] S.A. Beebe, S.J. Beebe, M.V. Redmond, T. Geerinck, L. Salem-Wiseman,
Interpersonal communication: Relating to others, Allyn and Bacon, 2002.
[47] J. Liu, J. Hua, H. Fu, H. Li, Q. Yang, Research on the Source of Subsidies Funds for
Power Demand Response, IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental
Science, IOP Publishing (2021) 042107.
[48] China Southern Power Grid, Announcement of Guangdong Power Grid Co., Ltd. on
the Price of Purchasing Electrician Commercial Users in April (2022).
[49] D. Huang, R. Billinton, W. Wangdee, Effects of demand side management on bulk
system adequacy evaluation, 2010 IEEE 11th International Conference on
Probabilistic Methods Applied to Power Systems, IEEE (2010) 593-598.
[50] C.W.J.P.o.t.I. Gellings, The concept of demand-side management for electric
utilities, Proceedings of the IEEE 73(10) (1985) 1468-1470.
[51] S.Q. Zheng, G.S. Huang, A.C.K. Lai, Techno-economic performance analysis of
synergistic energy sharing strategies for grid-connected prosumers with distributed
battery storages, Renew. Energy 178 (2021) 1261–1278.
[52] J.Q. Li, Y.M. Wei, L.C. Liu, X.Y. Li, R. Yan, The carbon footprint and cost of coalbased hydrogen production with and without carbon capture and storage
technology in China, J. Clean. Prod. 362 (2022) 132514.
[53] W. Xu, Y. Xie, D. Xia, L. Ji, G. Huang, A multi-sectoral decomposition and
decoupling analysis of carbon emissions in Guangdong province, China, Journal of
Environment Management 298 (2021) 113485.
[54] N. Li, R.A. Hakvoort, Z.J.A.E. Lukszo, Cost allocation in integrated community
energy systems—Performance assessment, Appl. Energy 307 (2022) 118155.
[55] J. Guo, Y. Li, Y. Shen, J. Yu, Y.J.I.T.o.P.S. Chen, A novel incentive mechanism for
CCHP-based microgrids in spinning reserve, IEEE Transactions on Power Systems
36(3) (2020) 1697-1712.
[56] Y. Chen, B. Park, X. Kou, M.Q. Hu, J. Dong, F.X. Li, K. Amasyali, M. Olama,
A comparison study on trading behavior and profit distribution in local energy
transaction games, Appl. Energy 280 (2020) 115941.
[57] Design code for residential buildings.GB 50096-2011. https://www.mohurd.
gov.cn/gongkai/fdzdgknr/tzgg/201110/20111026_206878.html.
[58] Standard for design of office building. JGJ/T67-2019. http://www.gov.cn/
zhengce/zhengceku/2020-04/03/content_5498866.htm.
[59] Code for design of hotel building. JGJ62-2014. https://www.mohurd.gov.cn/
gongkai/fdzdgknr/tzgg/201409/20140902_224213.html.
[60] Meteonorm, 2003. Meteonorm. Retrieved from: https://meteonorm.com/.
[61] D. Pan, X. Yu, Y. Zhou, Cradle-to-grave lifecycle carbon footprint analysis and
frontier decarbonization pathways of district buildings in subtropical Guangzhou,
China, Journal of Cleaner Production 416 (2023) 137921.
[62] M. Kumar, S. Chandel, A. Kumar, Performance analysis of a 10 MWp utility scale
grid-connected canal-top photovoltaic power plant under Indian climatic
conditions, Energy 204 (2020) 117903.

[8] Z. Liu, Y. Zhou, J. Yan, M. Tostado-Véliz, Frontier ocean thermal/power and solar
PV systems for transformation towards net-zero communities, Energy 284 (2023)
128362.
[9] B.P. Koirala, E. Koliou, J. Friege, R.A. Hakvoort, P.M. Herder, Energetic
communities for community energy: A review of key issues and trends shaping
integrated community energy systems, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 56 (2016)
722–744.
[10] T. Lehtola, A. Zahedi, Solar energy and wind power supply supported by storage
technology: A review, Sustainable Energy Technol. Assess. 35 (2019) 25–31.
[11] M.Y. Suberu, M.W. Mustafa, N. Bashir, Energy storage systems for renewable
energy power sector integration and mitigation of intermittency, Renew. Sustain.
Energy Rev. 35 (2014) 499–514.
[12] S. Tajjour, S. Chandel, A comprehensive review on sustainable energy management
systems for optimal operation of future-generation of solar microgrids, Sustainable
Energy Technol. Assess. 58 (2023) 103377.
[13] T. Morstyn, N. Farrell, S.J. Darby, M.D. McCulloch, Using peer-to-peer energytrading platforms to incentivize prosumers to form federated power plants, Nat
Energy 3 (2) (2018) 94–101.
[14] Y. Zhou, Peer-to-peer energy sharing and trading of renewable energy in smart
communities ─ trading pricing models, decision-making and agent-based
collaboration, Renew. Energ. 207 (2023) 177–193.
[15] Y. Zhou, Sustainable energy sharing districts with electrochemical battery
degradation in design, planning, operation and multi-objective optimisation,
Renew. Energ. 202 (2023) 1324–1341.
[16] Z. Shi, R. Wang, T. Zhang, Multi-objective optimal design of hybrid renewable
energy systems using preference-inspired coevolutionary approach, Sol. Energy
118 (2015) 96–106.
[17] P.-A. Parent, P. Mirzania, N. Balta-Ozkan, P. King, Post subsidy conditions:
Evaluating the techno-economic performance of concentrating solar power in
Spain, Sol. Energy 218 (2021) 571–586.
[18] A.A. Khan, S. Razzaq, A. Khan, F. Khursheed, Owais, HEMSs and enabled demand
response in electricity market: An overview, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 42
(2015) 773–785.
[19] S.J. Deng, L. Xu, Mean-risk efficient portfolio analysis of demand response and
supply resources, Energy 34 (10) (2009) 1523–1529.
[20] N. Spiliopoulos, I. Sarantakos, S. Nikkhah, G. Gkizas, D. Giaouris, P. Taylor,
U. Rajarathnam, N. Wade, Peer-to-peer energy trading for improving economic and
resilient operation of microgrids, Renew. Energy 199 (2022) 517–535.
[21] C. Rahul, S. Chandel, Performance analysis outcome of a 19-MWp commercial
solar photovoltaic plant with fixed-tilt, adjustable-tilt, and solar tracking
configurations, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 30 (2022) 27–48.
[22] A.D. Farooqui, M.A.J.C.A.S.M. Niazi, Game theory models for communication
between agents: a review, Complex Adaptive Systems Modeling 4(1) (2016) 1-31.
[23] C. Long, Y. Zhou, J.Z. Wu, A game theoretic approach for peer to peer energy
trading, Renewable Energy Integration with Mini/microgrid 159 (2019) 454–459.
[24] G.G. Li, Q.Q. Li, W. Song, L.H. Wang, Incentivizing distributed energy trading
among prosumers: A general Nash bargaining approach, Int. J. Electr. Power
Energy Syst. 131 (2021) 107100.
[25] L. Han, T. Morstyn, M.J.I.T.o.P.S. McCulloch, Incentivizing prosumer coalitions
with energy management using cooperative game theory, IEEE Transactions on
Power Systems 34(1) (2018) 303-313.
[26] A. Paudel, K. Chaudhari, C. Long, H.B.J.I.T.o.I.e. Gooi, Peer-to-peer energy trading
in a prosumer-based community microgrid: A game-theoretic model, IEEE
Transactions on Smart Grid 66(8) (2018) 6087-6097.
[27] W.P. Lee, D.J. Han, D. Won, Grid-Oriented Coordination Strategy of Prosumers
Using Game-theoretic Peer-to-Peer Trading Framework in Energy Community,
Appl. Energy 326 (2022) 119980.
[28] M. Tostado-Véliz, A.R. Jordehi, S.A. Mansouri, Y. Zhou, F. Jurado, A local
electricity-hydrogen market model for industrial parks, Appl. Energ. 360 (2024)
122760.
[29] Y. Zhou, X. Liu, A stochastic vehicle schedule model for demand response and grid
flexibility in a renewable-building-e-transportation-microgrid, Renew. Energ. 221
(2024) 119738.
[30] R. Jing, M.N. Xie, F.X. Wang, L.X. Chen, Fair P2P energy trading between
residential and commercial multi-energy systems enabling integrated demand-side
management, Appl. Energy 262 (2020) 114551.
[31] B. Pickering, R. Choudhary, District energy system optimisation under uncertain
demand: Handling data-driven stochastic profiles, Appl. Energy 236 (2019)
1138–1157.
[32] R.J. Yan, J.J. Wang, S.K. Lu, Z.R. Ma, Y. Zhou, L.D. Zhang, Y.L. Cheng, Multiobjective two-stage adaptive robust planning method for an integrated energy
system considering load uncertainty, Energ. Buildings 235 (2021) 110741.
[33] M. Tostado-Véliz, A.R. Jordehi, S.A. Mansouri, F.J.A.E. Jurado, Day-ahead
scheduling of 100% isolated communities under uncertainties through a novel
stochastic-robust model, Appl. Energy 328 (2022) 120257.

22

