Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Energy Economics
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/eneco

Financial viability of energy communities: The role of flexible assets,
balancing market participation and peer-to-peer tradingI , II
Ole Herman Imset, Rubab Ishmam, Jakob Kleinau, Maria Lavrutich

∗

, Dung-Bai Yen

Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Norway

ARTICLE
JEL classification:
C02
C61
G50
Q40
Q41
Q42
Keywords:
Smart grids
Peer-to-peer trading
Energy communities
Balancing markets
Real options analysis
Battery energy storage

INFO

ABSTRACT
Energy communities accelerate the green transition by enabling prosumers and non-generating households
to benefit from electricity exchange and cost savings. At the same time, there is a need for more flexibility
providers in the balancing markets, creating opportunities for energy communities to reduce energy costs
and enhance grid stability. This paper examines the financial viability of energy communities equipped with
electric vehicles, photovoltaics, and battery energy storage systems, that are actively engaged in peer-to-peer
trading and participating in the balancing markets. Our optimization model applied to a case study in Norway
shows a substantial reduction in energy costs for the energy community through peer-to-peer trading and
participation in reserve markets. Balancing market participation is crucial to ensure profitability of investment
in photovoltaics and battery energy storage systems. However, solar investments only yield negative net present
values even if the revenue of the balancing markets is present. To account for uncertainties in future costs
of battery energy storage systems and photovoltaics, we develop a real option investment valuation model,
which reveals additional value by deferring solar investments, making them more profitable. Furthermore,
an important finding is that incorporating the operational flexibility of assets in the optimization model
substantially reduces exposure to the volatility of spot and balancing market prices in the long-term investment
model.

1. Introduction
Several key trends—digitalization, electrification, decentralization,
and the growing role of renewable energy sources—are transforming
the future of the electricity grid (Kjølle et al., 2021). As the grid
becomes more reliant on intermittent renewable energy sources (RES)
like solar and wind, flexibility offered by distributed energy resources
(DERs), which can respond to price signals and grid requirements in
real time, becomes more important for maintaining grid stability. In
this context, the end-users have the potential to play a more active
role, as the increasing integration of DERs such as photovoltaics (PV),
battery energy storage systems (BESS), and electric vehicles (EVs)
is shifting the grid from a centralized model to a more distributed
structure. Thus, understanding the incentives that drive end-users to
become prosumers, who both generate, consume, and trade energy
using DERs, is essential for enhancing grid flexibility.
Digitalization and the resulting emergence of smart technologies,
such as, for example, peer-to-peer (P2P) trading platforms, offer the

potential to make it more attractive for consumers to become prosumers. peer-to-peer platforms enable prosumers to collaborate and
form energy communities, where they can trade electricity directly with
other users, bypassing traditional intermediaries (Mengelkamp et al.,
2018). By allowing prosumers to sell their excess energy and provide
flexibility services to the grid, energy communities can enhance local
energy efficiency while contributing to the broader stability of the
power system (Astero and Evens, 2020; Thingvad et al., 2022; Ahčin
et al., 2019). For energy communities to succeed and play a meaningful
role in grid flexibility, they must also be economically viable. One
way to improve profitability for energy communities is participation
in balancing markets, where they can offer flexibility services to help
stabilize the grid in exchange for an additional revenue stream. The
economic benefits allowing various flexibility assets into the balancing
markets have been investigated to some extent in the past (Radu et al.,
2019; Schwabeneder et al., 2021; Javanshir et al., 2023), and a brief

I This article is part of a Special issue entitled: ‘Carbon neutrality’ published in Energy Economics.
II Maria Lavrutich and Dung-Bai Yen gratefully acknowledge support from FME CINELDI, grant number 272398, and FME NTRANS, grant number 296205,

supported by the Research Council of Norway. The authors also thank Raquel Alonso Pedrero and Pedro Crespo Del Granado for their insightful comments and
feedback.
∗ Corresponding author.
E-mail address: maria.lavrutich@ntnu.no (M. Lavrutich).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eneco.2025.108985
Received 18 March 2025; Received in revised form 29 July 2025; Accepted 9 October 2025
Available online 13 October 2025
0140-9883/© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

Table 1
Technical characteristics of various flexibility assets that can participate in balancing markets in an energy
community.
Technology
type

Synergy with other
transition policies

Temporal
availability

Flexibility
range

BESS

Distributed renewable
energy deployment

High

High

EV

Decarbonization in the
transportation sector

Constrained
by service

Constrained
by service

Heat Pumps

Decarbonization in the
building sector

High

Constrained
by service

Other appliances
in general

Less directly related

Constrained
by service

Constrained
by service

summary of the technical characteristics of different types of flexibility
technology within an energy community is shown in Table 1. However,
despite these previous studies, the potential of energy communities
equipped with EVs and BESS becoming flexibility providers in the
balancing markets remains an area that has not yet been fully explored.
In this paper, we address the gap by evaluating the financial viability of future energy communities. We examine the impact of investing
in PVs and/or BESS, and explore how the availability of different
income streams affects the profitability of peer-to-peer energy communities. To do this, we construct an optimization model that simulates
the operation of a hypothetical peer-to-peer trading energy community in Norway.1 Households in the community are equipped with
PVs, EVs and BESS, and are to derive cost savings from balancing
markets, energy arbitrage,2 peer-to-peer trading, and grid export. We
focus on two balancing products: Fast Frequency Reserve (FFR) and
Frequency Containment Reserves (FCR) as they are characterized by
rapid response times and are well-suited for BESS and EVs due to
their ability to quickly charge and discharge energy in response to grid
needs (Canals Casals et al., 2019; Hollinger et al., 2017). However,
regulatory barriers currently limit household participation in these
markets. In this paper, we investigate the potential impact of allowing
households to participate and how this could promote greater end-user
involvement.
Our model integrates household demand estimates and simulated
solar generation profiles, as well as uncertainty in spot and FCR prices
using a Markov regime switching (MRS) model. The output from the
optimization model is then used to assess the value of investment in
PV-BESS through real options valuation (ROV) analysis. This method
allows us to quantify the profitability of investing in PVs and BESS
while accounting for uncertainties in market conditions and future
technology costs.
Our paper contributes to the growing stream of literature on financial viability of forming energy communities. This literature has
explored different approaches, focusing on either short-term optimization or long-term investment flexibility. Optimization models have
been used to demonstrate the potential cost savings from aggregating
BESS and EVs to participate in reserve markets. Studies such as Bessa
and Matos (2014), Iria et al. (2019), and Xiao et al. (2020) focus
on optimizing operations to maximize cost savings from flexibility
aggregation in various geographical contexts. Additionally, research on
peer-to-peer trading uncovers cost savings from local energy exchanges
within communities (Lüth et al., 2018; Nguyen et al., 2018; Zepter

et al., 2019), though these studies typically do not account for reserve
market participation, which can further enhance savings. The latter is
recognized by the literature on the integration of peer-to-peer trading
with flexibility markets where the distribution system operator (DSO)
is the flexibility requester (Kilthau et al., 2023; Khorasany et al.,
2021). In our paper, we build on these insights but focus on the
transmission system operator (TSO) as the procurer of flexibility. In
this context, closest to our study is the contribution by Bjarghov et al.
(2019), which develops a three-stage stochastic optimization model
to determine optimal bidding in day-ahead, intraday, FFR, and FCR
markets for the households in a peer-to-peer energy community in
Norway. They suggest that reserve market participation is significantly
higher when peer-to-peer trading in an energy community takes place.
While the potential cost savings are significant, it is crucial to recognize
that realizing these savings requires an initial investment in a PV-BESS
system. Thus, we expand this stream of literature to explicitly study if
these savings are sufficiently large to justify the investment in PV-BESS.
In this, we utilize a real option approach that recognizes the additional value of managerial flexibility to defer substantial long-term
investment decisions in uncertain environments. Several studies that
adopt this approach find that while conventional net present value
(NPV) analysis often deems the investments infeasible, the real options
framework supports making the investment (Penizzotto et al., 2019; Or
et al., 2024; Moon and Baran, 2018). Contributions by Castellini et al.
(2021) and Bertolini et al. (2018) extend the real options analysis by
considering the inclusion of peer-to-peer trading and reserve market
participation, respectively. While these models demonstrate how the
option to defer can add value to investments, they lack the component
that either captures the possibility to store energy using BESS. In
the meantime, Ma et al. (2019) apply the real options approach to
value PV-BESS systems but do not account for participation in different
balancing markets. In this paper, we address this gap by integrating
an optimization of operational decisions for peer-to-peer trading energy communities with PV-BESS and balancing market revenues into a
long-term investment framework.
Our main findings can be summarized as follows. We show that it is
profitable for households to form an energy community if they invest in
BESS and PVs at current prices. The main driver for the profitability of
investing in PV-BESS systems is the participation in balancing markets,
particularly FCR and FFR. Excluding these markets significantly reduces
financial viability, with NPVs turning negative in some cases. This also
applies to the case of BESS investment alone, where, without balancing
market participation, such investments yield negative NPVs, in line
with the conclusions of several existing contributions that conclude
that such investments are not profitable. In addition, we show that
investing in PVs alone currently yields negative NPV regardless of
balancing market participation. However, when accounting for the
value of flexibility to defer investment, which conventional valuation
methods disregard, we find that a price decrease over the coming years
would make the investment viable if balancing market revenue streams
are available. In addition, we explored the option of involving EVs
in the FCR market, which utilizes an existing asset without requiring
significant investment costs, showing some potential for cost reduction.

1
Norway is chosen as the case study in this paper due to the comprehensive
policy support of electrification of end-use energy demand and highly dynamic
time-of-use retailer electricity prices, resulting in a society with one of the
highest level of electrified, flexible end-use energy demand around the world.
As discussed in Table 1, these friendly policies in the various sectors have
synergies that enable flexibility in the balancing markets.
2
By ‘‘energy arbitrage’’, we refer to the charging of batteries when spot
prices are low and discharging at times when the spot prices are higher, within
the same day.

2

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

Fig. 1. Illustration of the houses, assets and available markets for the energy community.

Further, our analysis offers interesting insights about the volatility
of the savings achieved in the energy community. Particularly, the savings volatility is significantly lower than the spot and balancing prices.
This is because the optimization model considers multiple uncorrelated
income streams. The hedge offered by batteries against elevated spot
prices also diminishes the savings volatility. This insight contrasts with
studies that disregard optimization models and rely only on exogenous
processes governing price uncertainty. Despite the low savings volatility, we show that a real options valuation identifies additional value
compared to the conventional NPV in some investment cases.
Following this introduction, the paper is structured as follows.
Section 2 outlines the modeling approach, including the optimization
and investment valuation models. Section 3 presents the data sources
and the calibration of model parameters. Section 4 presents the results
and discussion. Finally, Section 5 concludes.

2.1. Functions, sets, indices, parameters and variables
Table 2 gives an overview of the functions, sets, indices, parameters,
and variables used in this section.
2.2. The optimization model
An optimization model is used in this paper to determine the shortterm operation of the flexible assets within the energy community.
Rather than optimizing the operation over a long time span, the model
is run for the first week of each quarter, with discrete days, as illustrated in Fig. 2. This is to make a satisfactory representation of an entire
year while maintaining a reasonable computational runtime. The model
plans operations for discrete 24-hour intervals with perfect foresight.
This aligns well with the fact that spot and FCR prices are known for up
to 36 h into the future. Nevertheless, the assumption that PV production
and household demand are known would not apply in reality. FFR
participation is predetermined as one has to sign a contract that lasts
longer than 24 h. Regarding FCR participation, we assume that the net
FCR regulation is zero per time step. Hence, FCR does not affect the
state of charge of the batteries.

2. Methodology
To explore the viability of investment in PVs and/or BESS, we
analyze a hypothetical energy community that consists of seven houses,
each equipped with different flexible assets, visualized in Fig. 1. The
households can engage in peer-to-peer trading, export to the main grid,
and provide flexibility through FFR Flex3 and FCR. When considering
short-term operations, we assume the community members have collectively invested in assets to benefit all participants, with the number
of EVs, PVs, and BESS set to four for each asset type whose investment
has occurred.
The workflow of our model for determining the value of PV and/or
BESS investments is described below. First, we calibrate household
demand using real data and simulate solar generation profiles to realistically represent energy consumption and production. Then we simulate
spot and FCR prices to account for the uncertainty in future market
conditions. These simulated price paths are then used as inputs for
running the optimization model, which determines the optimal operational decisions for the energy community equipped with flexible
assets. For each price path, the optimization model generates potential
savings. These savings are then fed into the valuation model to assess
the long-term financial viability of investing in PVs and/or BESS.

2.2.1. Price modeling
In our model, we introduce uncertainty in FCR and spot prices by
assuming that they follow a Markov regime switching (MRS) model
where three independent states are used, capturing normal price behavior, price spikes, and price drops (Daglish et al., 2021; Eichler
and Türk, 2013; Huisman and Mahieu, 2003; Janczura et al., 2013).
While jump-diffusion models are commonly used in the literature to
capture price spikes, the MRS framework models extreme price behavior through discrete regime transitions. In particular, the high-price
regime replicates sudden and persistent deviations from normal prices,
serving a similar purpose to jump components in diffusion models. This
provides a flexible and tractable alternative for capturing both volatility
clustering and structural breaks observed in historical electricity price
dynamics. The MRS model is defined by:
𝑚
⎧𝑋𝑡,1
⎪ 𝑚
𝑚
𝑋𝑡 = ⎨𝑋𝑡,2
⎪ 𝑚
⎩𝑋𝑡,3

3
There are two types of FFR products in the Norwegian balancing market:
FFR Flex and FFR Profil. Both are procured on a seasonal basis, with a fixed
price per MW per hour for the entire delivery period. FFR Flex allows the TSO
to activate capacity with short notice during a flexible set of hours, while FFR
Profil requires a predefined delivery profile throughout the season.

if 𝑅𝑚
𝑡 =1
if 𝑅𝑚
𝑡 =2

𝑚 = {𝑠, 𝑏}

(1)

if 𝑅𝑚
𝑡 = 3,

where 𝑚 = {𝑠, 𝑏} represents spot and FCR prices, respectively, and
𝑅𝑚
𝑡 is the state variable of the unobserved Markov chain that governs transitions between the three regimes. Here, 𝑋𝑡𝑚 represents the
stochastic component of the original price data, so the prices 𝑝𝑚
𝑡 =
3

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

Fig. 2. The optimization model is run in discrete daily intervals over representative weeks over 30 years, and data are revealed to the model annually, weekly,
and daily.

∀𝑡′ ∈ 𝜏𝜔 (13)

𝑓𝑡 +𝑋𝑡𝑚 , with 𝑓𝑡 as the deterministic part composed of daily (𝑑𝑡 ), weekly
(𝑤𝑡 ), and long-term seasonal components (𝑇𝑡 ), i.e. 𝑓𝑡 = 𝑑𝑡 + 𝑤𝑡 + 𝑇𝑡 .
The long-term seasonal component (𝑇𝑡 ) is modeled using sinusoidal
functions for better forecasting accuracy (Janczura and Weron, 2010),
while dummy variables capture the short-term components (𝑑𝑡 and
𝑤𝑡 ) (Bakke et al., 2016). This approach ensures that the deseasonalized
price 𝑋𝑡𝑚 effectively captures the stochastic variations required for the
MRS model.
The base regime (normal price behavior) in the MRS model follows the Chan–Karolyi–Longstaff–Sanders (CKLS) differential equation,
which captures mean reversion and volatility:
𝑚

𝑚
𝑚
𝑚 𝛾1
𝑚
𝑑𝑋𝑡,1
= (𝛼1𝑚 − 𝛽1𝑚 𝑋𝑡,1
)𝑑𝑡 + 𝜎1𝑚 |𝑋𝑡,1
| 𝑑𝑍𝑡,1

The income streams from balancing market participation are elaborated in Eq. (5). The level of FCR participation is the only decision
variable in Eq. (5); 𝑧𝐹 𝑙𝑒𝑥 is a parameter set to 90% of the BESS capacity
during summer and 0% during winter.

2.2.3. Constraints
The balance equation, Eq. (6), ensures supply–demand balance for
every household at all times.

(2)

𝐒𝐮𝐩𝐩𝐥𝐲

⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞
∑
𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑡,ℎ +
𝐷𝑡,𝑓 + 𝐺𝑡,ℎ
+ 𝐼𝑡,ℎ
𝑓 ∈𝜈𝐻 (ℎ)

min 𝑧(𝑡′ )

=
−

ℎ∈𝐻

∀

𝐃𝐞𝐦𝐚𝐧𝐝

=

𝑡 ∈ 𝑇, ℎ ∈ 𝐻

(6)

⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞
∑
𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝑑𝑒𝑚𝑡,ℎ +
𝐶𝑡,𝑓 + 𝐺𝑡,ℎ
+ 𝑋𝑡,ℎ
𝑓 ∈𝜈𝐻 (ℎ)

Eq. (7) through Eq. (10) describe the grid properties of the problem.
∑

𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝐺𝑡,ℎ
≤ 𝐺𝑡𝑝𝑒𝑎𝑘
′

∀ 𝑡 ∈ 𝜏𝐷 (𝑡′ ),

𝑡′ ∈ 𝜏𝜔 (13)

(7)

ℎ∈𝐻

∑

2.2.2. Objective function
Eq. (4) is the objective function of the optimization problem. It seeks
to minimize the cost for the community. All positive terms represent
costs, while the negative terms represent revenue from different income
streams for the community. The first and second term is the sum of
imports and exports. Note that there is an extra retail cost for imports,
which is not incurred when exporting to the grid. The last term is due
to the compensation of balancing market participation.
𝐄𝐥𝐞𝐜𝐭𝐫𝐢𝐜𝐢𝐭𝐲𝐩𝐮𝐫𝐜𝐡𝐚𝐬𝐞𝐜𝐨𝐬𝐭𝐬

(5)

𝑡∈𝜏𝐷 (𝑡′ )

where 𝑘 = 2 corresponds to price spikes and 𝑘 = 3 to price drops. The
quantiles are set as 𝑞2𝑚 = 0.75 and 𝑞3𝑚 = 0.25 to reflect that spikes occur
above the median and drops occur below the median. We generate
10 000 paths of spot and FCR prices for use in the optimization model.

∑

𝐅𝐂𝐑𝐬𝐚𝐯𝐢𝐧𝐠𝐬

𝐅𝐅𝐑𝐅𝐥𝐞𝐱𝐬𝐚𝐯𝐢𝐧𝐠𝐬

⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞ ⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞
∑
𝐵𝑀𝑃 = 𝑝𝐹 𝑙𝑒𝑥 𝑧𝐹 𝑙𝑒𝑥 ℎ𝐹 𝑙𝑒𝑥 +
𝑝𝐹𝑡 𝐶𝑅 𝑍𝑡𝐹 𝐶𝑅

𝑚 are increments of
where 𝛼1𝑚 , 𝛽1𝑚 , 𝜎1𝑚 , and 𝛾1𝑚 are constants, and 𝑑𝑍𝑡,1
mutually independent Wiener processes.4 For both price spikes and
drops, we use a shifted log-normal distribution. The spikes occur when
𝑚 > 𝑋(𝑞 𝑚 ), while drops occur when
prices exceed a specified quantile 𝑋𝑡,2
2
𝑚
𝑚
prices fall below 𝑋𝑡,3 < 𝑋(𝑞3 ). The general form for both regimes is as
follows:
(
(
))
(
)
𝑚
log (−1)𝑘 𝑋𝑡,𝑘
− 𝑋(𝑞𝑘𝑚 ) ∼ 𝑁 𝛼𝑘𝑚 , (𝜎𝑘𝑚 )2 ,
(3)

∑

(4)

𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝐺𝑡,ℎ
≤ 𝑥𝑙𝑖𝑚𝑖𝑡

𝑡∈𝑇

∑
𝑡∈𝑇

𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝐺𝑡,ℎ
≥

∑

(8)

∀ ℎ∈𝐻

𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝐺𝑡,ℎ

(9)

∀ ℎ∈𝐻

𝑡∈𝑇

𝑝𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
= (1 − 𝜓)𝑝𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑡
𝑡
𝑡

(10)

∀ 𝑡∈𝑇

Eq. (11) through Eq. (15) constrain both the BESS and EV batteries
according to their respective properties. Note that at specified times,
the batteries are modeled to have a state of charge at a set percent
of maximum. To model EV behavior, Eqs. (13) and (14) are added.
Eq. (15) ensures that EVs are not able to contribute in the community
outside the specified time intervals.

𝐄𝐱𝐩𝐨𝐫𝐭𝐬𝐚𝐯𝐢𝐧𝐠𝐬

⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞ ⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞
𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑡
𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
(
+ 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑖𝑙
)𝐺𝑡,ℎ
− 𝑝𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝐺𝑡,ℎ
)
𝑡∈𝜏𝐷 (𝑡′ ) (𝑝𝑡
𝑡
𝑡

𝐵𝑀𝑃

𝑆𝑡,𝑓 = 𝑆𝑡−1,𝑓 +𝜂𝑓𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒 𝐶𝑡,𝑓 −
4

Since the correlation coefficient between the historical spot and FCR
prices is found to be 0.2, this correlation is disregarded in the model.

1
𝜂𝑓𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒

𝐷𝑡,𝑓

∀

𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 , 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪𝐹 𝐸𝑉
(11)

4

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

𝑠𝑡,𝑓 ≤ 𝑆𝑡,𝑓 ≤ 𝑠𝑡,𝑓
Table 2
Functions, Sets, Indices, Parameters and Variables.
Function

Description

𝜏𝜔 (⋅)

A mapping 𝜔 ↦ , where 𝜔 ∈ {0, 1, 2, … , 23} and
 = {𝑡|𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 & mod (𝑡, 24) = 𝜔},
indicating all the time steps of the same hour of day.
A mapping 𝑡 ↦  where 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 and
 = {𝑞|𝑞 ∈ 𝑇 & 0 ≤ 𝑞 − 𝑡 < 24},
indicating the next 24 h after hour 𝑡.
A mapping 𝑡 ↦ 𝑦 where (𝑡, 𝑦) ∈ 𝑇 × ,
indicating the year of 𝑡.
(
)
A mapping ℎ ↦  where (ℎ, ) ∈ 𝐻 × 𝑃 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 ,
indicating the BESS and EV assets of a household ℎ.

𝜏𝐷 (⋅)

𝜏𝑦 (𝑡)
𝜈𝐻 (⋅)
Set

Description

𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆
𝐹 𝐸𝑉
𝐹 𝑃𝑉
𝐻

𝑇
𝑇 𝐸𝑉 ⊆ 𝑇

The set of all BESS.
The set of all EVs.
The set of all PVs.
Houses
Years
The set of all time steps (in hours),
ordered in consecutive natural numbers.
Time steps where EVs are connected to a household charger

Index

Description

ℎ
𝑓
𝑝
𝑡

House
Flexible asset
Peer (in a peer-to-peer trade)
Time step

Parameter

Description

𝛼𝑓
𝛽𝑓
𝜂𝑓𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒
𝜂𝑓𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒
𝜂 𝑃 2𝑃
𝜓
𝑑𝑒𝑚𝑡,ℎ
ℎ𝑃 𝑟𝑜𝑓 𝑖𝑙
ℎ𝐹 𝑙𝑒𝑥
𝑝𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝑡
𝑝𝐹𝑡 𝐶𝑅
𝑝𝐹 𝑙𝑒𝑥
𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑖𝑙
𝑡
𝑝𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑡
𝑡
𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑡,ℎ
𝑠𝑡,𝑓
𝑠𝑡,𝑓
𝑠𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑛𝑖𝑛𝑔𝐸𝑉
𝑓
𝑠𝑚𝑜𝑟𝑛𝑖𝑛𝑔𝐸𝑉
𝑓
𝑥𝑙𝑖𝑚𝑖𝑡
𝑧𝐹 𝑙𝑒𝑥
𝑧𝑃 𝑟𝑜𝑓 𝑖𝑙

Maximum charging power of 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 [kW]
Maximum discharging power of 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 [kW]
Charging efficiency of 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 [%]
Discharge efficiency of 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 [%]
Distribution network efficiency for peer-to-peer transactions [%]
Marginal loss rate for feeding into grid [%]
Demand for electricity from ℎ ∈ 𝐻 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kWh]
Number of hours of revenue from FFR Profil [h]
Number of hours of revenue from FFR Flex [h]
Electricity export cost at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [NOK/kWh]
FCR market price at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [NOK/kW/h]
FFR Flex market price per hour [NOK/kW/h]
Grid surcharge at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [NOK/kWh]
Spot price at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [NOK/kWh]
Renewable energy production of ℎ ∈ 𝐻 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kWh]
Maximum energy content in 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kWh]
Minimum required energy content in 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kWh]
State of charge for EV 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝜏𝜔 (22) [kWh]
State of charge for EV 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝜏𝜔 (7) [kWh]
Grid export limit per house [kW]
The reserved power for FFR Flex [kW]
The reserved power for FFR Profil [kW]

Variable

Description

𝐵𝑀𝑃
𝐶𝑡,𝑓
𝐷𝑡,𝑓
𝑆𝑡,𝑓
𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝐺𝑡,ℎ
𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝐺𝑡,ℎ
𝐺𝑡𝑝𝑒𝑎𝑘
′
𝑅𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒
𝑡,𝑓
𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒
𝑅𝑡,𝑓
𝑍𝑡𝐹 𝐶𝑅
𝐼𝑡,ℎ
𝐼𝑡,ℎ←𝑝

Payment for participation in the balancing market [NOK]
Charging of 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kWh]
Discharging of 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kWh]
State of charge of 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kWh]
Grid import during 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 for ℎ ∈ 𝐻 [kWh]
Grid export during 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 for ℎ ∈ 𝐻 [kWh]
Peak community load for 𝑡 ∈ 𝜏𝐷 (𝑡′ ) [kW]
Reserved charging power from 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kW]
Reserved discharging power from 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kW]
The reserved power for FCR at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kW]
peer-to-peer electricity purchase from ℎ ∈ 𝐻 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kWh]
peer-to-peer electricity purchase of ℎ ∈ 𝐻 from 𝑝 ∈ 𝐻 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇
[kWh]
peer-to-peer electricity sale from ℎ ∈ 𝐻 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kWh]
peer-to-peer electricity sale of ℎ ∈ 𝐻 to 𝑝 ∈ 𝐻 at 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 [kWh]

𝑋𝑡,ℎ
𝑋𝑡,ℎ→𝑝

𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 , 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉

∀

(12)

𝑆𝑡,𝑓 = 𝑠𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑛𝑖𝑛𝑔𝐸𝑉
𝑓

∀ 𝑡 ∈ 𝜏𝜔 (22), 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉

(13)

𝑆𝑡,𝑓 = 𝑠𝑚𝑜𝑟𝑛𝑖𝑛𝑔𝐸𝑉
𝑓

∀ 𝑡 ∈ 𝜏𝜔 (7), 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉

(14)

𝑆𝑡,𝑓 = 0

∀

𝑡 ∉ 𝑇 𝐸𝑉 , 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉

(15)

Charging and discharging properties are given in Eq. (16) through
Eq. (20). Maximum limits are implemented according to battery properties, and batteries reserve their charging and discharging power
depending on promised flexibility provisions at every time step.
𝐶𝑡,𝑓 ≤ 𝛼𝑓

∀

𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 , 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉

(16)

𝐷𝑡,𝑓 ≤ 𝛽𝑓

∀

𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 , 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉

(17)

𝐶𝑡,𝑓 ≥ 𝑅𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒
𝑡,𝑓

𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 , 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉

∀

𝐷𝑡,𝑓 + 𝑅𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒
≤ 𝛽𝑓
𝑡,𝑓
∑

(18)

𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 , 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉

(19)

(𝑅𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒
+ 𝑅𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒
) ≥ 𝑧𝐹 𝑙𝑒𝑥 + 𝑧𝑃 𝑟𝑜𝑓 𝑖𝑙 + 𝑍𝑡𝐹 𝐶𝑅
𝑡,𝑓
𝑡,𝑓

∀ 𝑡∈𝑇

∀

𝑓 ∈𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪𝐹 𝐸𝑉

(20)
Constraints modeling peer-to-peer transactions are given in Eq. (21)
through Eq. (23).
∑
𝑋𝑡,ℎ =
𝑋𝑡,ℎ→𝑝
∀ 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇, ℎ ∈ 𝐻
(21)
𝑝∈𝐻⧵ℎ

𝐼𝑡,ℎ =

∑

𝐼𝑡,ℎ←𝑝

∀

𝑡 ∈ 𝑇, ℎ ∈ 𝐻

(22)

𝑝∈𝐻⧵ℎ

𝐼𝑡,ℎ←𝑝 = 𝜂 𝑃 2𝑃 𝑋𝑡,ℎ→𝑝

∀

𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 , (ℎ, 𝑝) ∈ 𝐻 × 𝐻

(23)

Lastly, non-negativity in variables is reflected in Eqs. (24), (25) and
(26).
𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝑒𝑥𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡
𝐶𝑡,𝑓 , 𝐷𝑡,𝑓 , 𝑆𝑡,𝑓 , 𝐺𝑡𝑝𝑒𝑎𝑘
, 𝐺𝑡,ℎ
, 𝐺𝑡,ℎ
≥0
′

∀

𝑓 ∈ 𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 ∪ 𝐹 𝐸𝑉 , 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 , ℎ ∈ 𝐻, 𝑡′ ∈ 𝜏𝜔 (13)

𝑅𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒
, 𝑅𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒
, 𝑍𝑡𝐹 𝐶𝑅 ≥ 0
𝑡,𝑓
𝑡,𝑓
𝐼𝑡,ℎ , 𝐼𝑡,ℎ←𝑝 , 𝑋𝑡,ℎ , 𝑋𝑡,ℎ→𝑝 ≥ 0

∀
∀

𝑡 ∈ 𝑇, 𝑓 ∈ 𝐹
𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 , (ℎ, 𝑝) ∈ 𝐻 × 𝐻

(24)

(25)
(26)

2.3. Investment valuation
We use real options (ROV) to value the investment, as it accounts
for the flexibility of delaying decisions under uncertainty, unlike NPV,
which assumes now-or-never choices. Uncertainty in savings arises
from fluctuating spot and FCR prices, which are integrated into the
optimization model. The resulting savings paths are then used in the
valuation. To capture the uncertainty in future investment costs, we
model them using Geometric Brownian motion (Penizzotto et al., 2019;
Or et al., 2024; Moon and Baran, 2018; Tang et al., 2014).
The investment problem is structured as follows. In each year 𝑦
up to 𝑇𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 , the energy community can choose to invest in PVs
and/or BESS. Each possible investment decision 𝑗 comes with a cost
𝐼𝑗 (𝑦) and generates a profit flow 𝑃 𝐹𝑗 (𝑦). The value of the investment,
∀𝑗 ∈ 𝑃 ({𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 , 𝐹 𝑃 𝑉 }) is:
(
)
∗
𝑅𝑂𝑉𝑗 =
max
EQ [𝑒−𝑟𝑦 (𝑃 𝐹𝑗 (𝑦∗ ) − 𝐼𝑗 (𝑦∗ ))| 𝑃 𝐹𝑗 (0), 𝐼𝑗 (0)], 0
(27)
∗
0≤𝑦 ≤𝑇𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛

5

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

where 𝑟 is the risk-neutral discount rate5 and EQ [⋅] denotes the expectation under the risk-neutral probability measure Q. Practically, this
optimal stopping problem is solved using Least Squares Monte Carlo
(LSM) method developed by Longstaff and Schwartz (2001), which
estimates conditional expectations through least squares regression and
determines the optimal times to exercise the investment option. The
LSM simulation procedure works backward by comparing the immediate payoff with the continuation value of postponing the investment
at each time step. To implement it we first simulate paths for 𝑃 𝐹𝑗 (𝑦)
and 𝐼𝑗 (𝑦), i.e. the discounted future profits from immediate investment
and investment cost, respectively. This means that for each simulated
sample 𝑖 we would have realized paths 𝑃 𝐹𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) and 𝐼𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦). At each time
step 𝑦, 𝑃 𝐹𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) is given by

participation during weekends, while FFR Flex offers more flexibility
with weekly procurement for immediate demands. Our analysis focuses on FFR Flex, as the community’s EVs cannot meet the full-time
commitment for FFR Profil.
To estimate the regimes for spot and FCR prices, we use the algorithm by Janczura and Weron (2012), with a 10-year calibration
window for spot prices (2013–2023) and a 2-year window for FCR
prices (2021–2023), both based on Norwegian NO3 data obtained from
Stattnett and Bloomberg.6 We focus on the FCR-N D2 segment, which
provides symmetric frequency regulation, and has a higher average
price compared to FCR-N D1.
3.2. Calibration of demand and PV production

𝑦+𝑌max

𝑃 𝐹𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) =

∑

𝑆𝑖,𝑗 (𝑛) ⋅ 𝑒−𝑟⋅(𝑛−𝑦) ,

PV production for the Norwegian electricity price area NO3 is
simulated using data from Berg and Löschenbrand (2022), which filters
the data by season, day type (weekday or weekend), and time of day.
The data set is based on irradiation and temperature measurements
from 15 weather stations across Norway, spanning from January 1,
2015, to December 31, 2020. Hourly solar production, 𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑡 , is simulated
for each hour 𝑡 and scaled to the system’s maximum PV capacity 𝑃 𝑉𝑚𝑎𝑥 :
𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑡 = 𝑥𝑡 ⋅ 𝑃 𝑉𝑚𝑎𝑥 , 𝑥𝑡 ∼  (𝜇𝑡 , 𝜎𝑡2 ). Here 𝑥𝑡 is drawn from a Gaussian
distribution with mean 𝜇𝑡 and volatility 𝜎𝑡 . Values below 2% of the
system’s capacity, typically occurring at night, are set to zero to avoid
unrealistically small outputs.
Demand profiles in our model are based on smart-meter data from
seven houses in a community in Trondheim in 2021. The data was
segmented into four seasons: winter (Dec–Feb), spring (Mar–May),
summer (Jun–Aug), and autumn (Sep–Nov) to reflect the impact of
outdoor temperatures on electricity usage. We filter the data by season,
day of the week, and time of day to generate representative weekly
profiles for each season and house, which were then extrapolated to
cover the full season.

(28)

𝑛=𝑦

where 𝑌max is the maximum year into the future considered in the
investment problem, and 𝑆𝑖,𝑗 (𝑛) is the expected annual cost savings due
to the investment decision 𝑗. More specifically, we first calculate the
total annual cost for an option 𝑗:
∑
𝑍𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) =
𝑧∗ (𝑡′ |𝑖, 𝑗) ∀𝑗
(29)
𝑡′ ∈𝜏𝜔 (13)∩𝜏𝑦 (𝑡′ )=𝑦

where 𝑧∗ (𝑡′ |𝑖, 𝑗) is the optimal value for the optimization problem in Eq.
(4), subject to conditions in sample path 𝑖 and option 𝑗. We can then
define 𝑆𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) as
(30)

𝑆𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) = 𝑍𝑖,∅ (𝑦) − 𝑍𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦)
Meanwhile, the investment cost 𝐼𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) is given by
𝐼𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) = 𝐼0,𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) + 𝐼𝑌𝑅𝐼 ,𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) ⋅ 𝑒−𝑟⋅𝑌𝑅𝐼 ,

𝑗 ∈ 𝑃 ({𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 , 𝐹 𝑃 𝑉 })

(31)

where 𝑌𝑅𝐼 is the expected year of reinvestment, 𝐼𝑌𝑅𝐼 ,𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) is the reinvestment cost for the flexible assets, and 𝐼0,𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) is assumed to follow
Geometric Brownian motion simulated under the risk-neutral measure:
𝑑𝐼0,𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) = 𝑟𝐼0,𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦)𝑑𝑦 + 𝜎𝑗 𝐼0,𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦)𝑑 𝑧̂ 𝑖,𝑗 ,

𝑗 ∈ 𝑃 ({𝐹 𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 , 𝐹 𝑃 𝑉 })

3.3. Parameters of community
To model BESS and EV battery properties, we use technical parameters of Tesla Powerwall 2 (5 kW maximum power, 13.5 kWh
storage capacity) and Tesla Model S (7.4 kW maximum power, 100
kWh storage capacity). For simplification, we assume that EVs charge
10 kWh per night between 22:00 and 07:00, based on Norwegian EV
statistics.7 The PV capacity is set to 5 kWp.
We assume a lifetime of 25 years for PVs and half of that for BESS,
as in Peters et al. (2021) and Chowdhury et al. (2020). To optimize
asset utilization, the horizon is set to 25 years with BESS reinvestment
halfway through the period.
Four Tesla Powerwall 2 units cost $37 875 (NOK 405 000 with 25%
VAT).8 For the PVs, the installed price of a 5 kWp panel is assumed to
be NOK 120 000 after accounting for subsidies.9 The total investment
cost for four houses thus amounts to NOK 480 000.
For valuation model, we use a risk-free rate of 3.7%, equivalent to
the yield of the Norwegian 10-year Government bond. For each of the
presented cases, we use 10 000 paths to simulate the cost savings. We
assume that the energy community has to decide within five years if it
invests into PVs and/or BESS or not. Once invested, the assets operate
for 25 years. The drift and volatility for the geometric Brownian motion
process governing the evolution of the investment costs 𝛼𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 , 𝛼𝑃 𝑉 ,
𝜎𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆 and 𝜎𝑃 𝑉 are estimated from historical data from 2010 to 2020
(Ziegler and Trancik (2021), Ritchie et al. (2024)). The analyses in
this section use input data summarized in Table 8 in Appendix B. All
valuation results presented in the next section are per household.

(32)

where 𝑑 𝑧̂ 𝑖,𝑗 ∼ N(0, dy) and 𝜎𝑗 is a parameter that governs the volatility
of the random fluctuations of the investment cost. In addition, we have
𝐼𝑌𝑅𝐼 ,𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) = 𝐼0,𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦 + 𝑌𝑅𝐼 ).
Next, we compute the payoff from immediate investment: 𝐹𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) =
max(𝑃 𝐹𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) − 𝐼𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦), 0) and estimate the continuation value of postpon[ −𝑟𝛥𝑦
ing the investment
𝑉𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦 + 𝛥𝑦)
] for years 𝑦 < 𝑇𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 : 𝐶𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) = EQ 𝑒
|
| 𝑃 𝐹𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦), 𝐼𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) , with option value 𝑉𝑖,𝑗 at year 𝑦 + 𝛥𝑦. A second-degree
|
polynomial is used to estimate the continuation value and the profit
flows, as tests have shown this method is robust while minimizing
computational demands (Jafarizadeh and Bratvold, 2009). The LSM
iterates backwards to calculate the option value. The option value is
then updated as follows: 𝑉𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦) = max(𝐹𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦), 𝐶𝑖,𝑗 (𝑦)). Finally, the real
option value at time 0 is computed as the sample average of the initial
∑
option value: 𝑅𝑂𝑉𝑗 = 𝑁1 𝑁
𝑖=1 𝑉𝑖,𝑗 (0). A detailed workflow of the LSM
method can be found in Appendix A.
3. Data and calibration
3.1. Price calibration
We assume deterministic FFR prices based on historical data. FFR,
introduced as a commercial market in Norway in 2022, is procured
through FFR Profil and FFR Flex, priced at 115 NOK/MW/h and
419 NOK/MW/h in 2024, respectively. FFR Profil requires full-time

6

Table 9 in Appendix B presents the estimated parameters.
https://www.ssb.no/transport-og-reiseliv/landtransport/statistikk/
bilparken/artikler/nysgjerrig-pa-elbiler-i-norge-se-siste-elbilstatistikk-her
8
https://www.tesla.com/powerwall/design/overview
9
https://www.enova.no/privat/alle-energitiltak/solenergi/solcelleanlegg
7

5
The risk preferences of households can vary, but we simplify the analysis
by assuming that all risks are spanned by tradable market assets and utilize
the risk-neutral valuation framework (Sundaram, 1997).

6

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

Table 3
Case configurations.
Case

Available assets
EV

Base: Both
Base: No peer-to-peer
Base: No FCR
Base: None
BA
BA: No FCR
BA: No FFR
BA: No FFR or FCR
BA: No peer-to-peer
BESS
BESS: No FFR or FCR
PV
PV: No peer-to-peer or FCR

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

BESS

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

Available income streams
PV

Arb.

Peer-to-peer

FCR

Exp.

✓

✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

FFR

✓
✓

✓
✓

Table 4
Average annual savings per house with respect to the base cases.

4. Results and discussion
To identify the most crucial income streams and determine whether
PV or BESS is more beneficial for community savings, we simulate cases
with different community configurations, provided in Table 3. In Table
3, a checkmark indicates the availability of an asset or income stream
to the community. EVs are assumed to be owned by four community
participants and are included in all cases. Acronyms in case names
represent available assets along with EVs - ‘‘BA’’ (both assets: PV and
BESS), ‘‘PV’’ (only PVs), and ‘‘BESS’’ (only BESS) - as well as indicate
which income stream is removed.

Case

Base case

Savings w.r.t. the base case

BA
BA: No peer-to-peer
BA: No FFR
BA: No FCR
BA: No FFR or FCR
BESS
BESS: No FFR or FCR
PV
PV: No peer-to-peer or FCR

Base: Both
Base: No peer-to-peer
Base: Both
Base: No FCR
Base: No FCR
Base: Both
Base: No FCR
Base: Both
Base: None

NOK 11 235
NOK 10 873
NOK 9 429
NOK 7 183
NOK 2 591
NOK 9 126
NOK
446
NOK 2 082
NOK 1 688

4.1. Optimization model results
Potential savings of up to NOK 11 235 per year can be achieved by
investing in PVs and BESS while accessing all defined income streams.
First, we examine the effect of balancing market participation.
When FFR participation is unavailable, savings decrease to NOK 9 429
per year, while the absence of FCR leads to a larger decrease to NOK
7 183 per year, indicating that FCR is more valuable in the model. If
neither FFR nor FCR is available, the savings decrease to NOK 2 591
per year, surpassing the sum of losing the balancing markets separately.
This is because FCR helps offset the loss of FFR by utilizing additional
battery capacity.
Next, we analyze the value of peer-to-peer trading. The decrease
in savings when eliminating the opportunity for peer-to-peer trading is
only NOK 362, reducing the total savings from NOK 11 235 to NOK
10 873 in Table 4. However, this does not diminish the significance
of peer-to-peer trading, as it can serve as an offsetting mechanism
when other income streams, e.g. FCR or FFR, are not available. A
crucial aspect of our optimization model lies in managing the battery
power, a limited resource. FFR participation consumes 90% of this
power, limiting the full potential of peer-to-peer and FCR. However,
the objective is to minimize the community’s costs rather than solely
showcasing the maximum savings achievable through individual income streams. Nevertheless, in our case, peer-to-peer trading yields
little value compared to FFR and FCR participation.
Furthermore, we explore the implications of having only PVs or
BESS. BESS alone can provide savings of NOK 9 126, more than four
times that of PVs. Consequently, according to our model, BESS emerges
as the superior asset. However, without FFR and FCR, in ‘‘BESS: No FFR
or FCR’’, the savings amount to only NOK 446. Additionally, ‘‘PV: No
peer-to-peer or FCR’’ represents ‘‘plus customers’’: current PV owners
who use the PV generated electricity to primarily cover their demand,
and export to the grid if they have surplus energy. Adding peer-topeer and FCR to the current plus customer case results in additional
savings of only NOK 394. This is partly due to PVs not being able
to participate in FCR in our model. The additional savings therefore
represents the potential of allowing EVs to participate in the FCR
market. The assumption that EVs are available for FCR participation

To understand how flexible assets such as BESS and EVs are operated within the energy community under varying market conditions,
we analyze the outcomes of the optimization model for the different simulation periods. These results provide insights into the dynamic scheduling of resources across seasons and market participation
scenarios.
Fig. 3 shows the operational schedule of flexibility resources in the
local energy community from various months in a sampled year of the
‘‘BA’’ case, based on the results of the optimization model. A positive
value in power means that the flexibility resources in the local energy
community are discharging electricity (providing upward flexibility),
whereas a negative value indicates charging activity (absorbing excess
electricity from the grid). Each subplot (a) through (d) represents a
different seasonal snapshot of operation. The stacked bars are divided
into two components: the green shaded area represents the reserved upward flexibility, i.e., the capacity set aside for participation in balancing
markets, while the red shaded area shows the used upward flexibility,
indicating actual dispatch or charging/discharging activity. The black
dashed line denotes the feasible range of operation for the aggregated
flexibility resource.
As one can see, the local energy community exhibits greater operational flexibility during nighttime hours, primarily because EVs are only
available to provide flexibility services overnight. In addition, during
the winter months the flexibility resources do not participate in the
FFR market, allowing for higher utilization since no minimum reserve
power is required for balancing services. In contrast, the utilization of
BESS and EVs during the summer months is rather limited (especially
at daytime), since most of the capacity has been reserved for the FFR
market participation.
4.2. Annual average costs and savings
Table 4 displays the average annual savings per household, compared to the corresponding ‘‘Base’’ cases, where neither PV nor BESS are
available. The savings are averaged over the 30-year simulation period.
7

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

Fig. 3. The operational schedule of flexibility resources (BESS and EVs) in the local energy community from various months in a sampled year of the ‘‘BA’’ case,
based on the results of the optimization model.

only during the night might be conservative. If EVs are connected to
chargers more than 9 h a day, the savings could surpass the value
presented here.

Fig. 4, however, also shows that the savings volatility is lower
without FCR. The lower savings volatility is a result of completely
removing the exposure to FCR prices. As the BESS are utilized more
for energy arbitrage and peer-to-peer trading, the correlation of the
volatility of the savings with the spot price volatility becomes higher
than that with the FCR price volatility.
Further, it is important to consider FFR price levels. The referenced
community costs for the cases where FFR participation is included
are dependent on the compensation rates for flexibility. If the price
of FFR Flex declines, the optimal amount of power allocated to FFR
might reduce, enabling more power for participation in peer-to-peer
trading and/or the FCR market. In this case, the energy community
increases their exposure to spot prices and/or FCR prices, which are
highly volatile, as shown in Fig. 4. As a result, the savings volatility
will increase.
In 2024, Statnett reduced the FCR bid size from 1 MW to 0.1 MW,
but most of the FCR prices used in the simulations (spanning from 2021
to 2024) don’t reflect this change. This reduction could lead to lower
FCR prices, decreasing the potential value for energy communities.
However, the impact may be offset by increased FFR provisions or
higher FFR prices, particularly if more power is allocated to FFR Flex,
which has lower volatility than FCR. Allocating to FFR Profil, which has
higher volatility, would result in smaller changes to savings volatility.
Moreover, the energy community would be exposed to the risk of
elevated spot prices if it did not have any assets, due to increased cost
of covering demand. However, by investing in batteries the energy
community mitigates the spot price risk. This is due to batteries’
ability to charge when prices are low and discharge when prices are
high, effectively hedging against grid import at high prices. The value
of charging and discharging at low and high prices, respectively, is
enhanced when PV generated electricity is used to charge the batteries
as well, reducing the cost of charging.
Thus, the savings volatility is influenced by both driving factors
and mitigating factors. On one hand, FCR and spot prices exhibit high
volatilities. On the other hand, FFR Flex prices are significantly less
volatile than FCR and spot prices. Moreover, the hedge offered by the
battery diminishes the savings volatility. Thus, the volatilities of FCR
and spot prices do not fully feed through into the savings. This result
is crucial for the investment valuation.

4.3. Savings volatility
After analyzing the potential savings from various income streams,
it is also important to consider the associated volatilities in the context
of investment analysis. Savings alone do not provide a complete picture
of the financial viability of an energy community. The uncertainty
in future prices and income streams, represented by volatilities, can
significantly influence the risk and return of the investment.
Interyear volatilities, calculated using log returns, are shown in
Fig. 4 for spot and FCR prices, as well as for savings in ‘‘BA’’ and ‘‘BA:
No FCR’’.
Fig. 4 shows that the high volatilities of FCR (24.87%) and spot
prices (23.95%) do not fully translate into the community’s savings
volatility. In the ‘‘BA’’ case, savings volatility is only 12.34%, and for
‘‘BA: No FCR’’, it drops to 5.01%. This discrepancy arises because the
optimization model accounts for multiple uncorrelated income streams,
reducing savings volatility compared to price volatility. This is in
contrast to Castellini et al. (2021) and Bertolini et al. (2018) who model
price uncertainty as the main driver of uncertainty in investment value.
These contributions, however, do not consider available operational
flexibility from battery storage. As a consequence, the results of their
investment valuation models are largely driven by higher price volatility, which could potentially overestimate the value of deferring the
investment.
An interesting observation in the ‘‘BA’’ case, as shown in Fig. 5,
is the stronger dependence of savings volatility on FCR prices rather
than spot prices. The scatter plots illustrate the relationship between
interyear volatility in savings and in spot or FCR prices for each
path, with each point representing the volatility of a price path and
its corresponding savings. The greater influence of FCR volatility is
likely due to the higher value of FCR participation compared to energy
arbitrage, prompting the community to prioritize reserving power for
FCR provisions. Meanwhile, the optimization model minimizes spot
price exposure by storing energy during low-price periods and using it
during high-price periods, reducing the impact of spot price volatility
on savings.
8

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

Fig. 4. Interyear volatility in annual savings, FCR and spot prices for the ‘‘BA’’ and ‘‘BA: No FCR’’ cases.

Fig. 5. Interyear volatility in annual savings and simulated FCR/spot prices for the ‘‘BA’’ case with linear regressions.

Table 5
NPVs per household.

Table 6
Discount rates when the NPV changes signs.

Case

NPV

Case

Critical discount rate

BA
BA: No peer-to-peer
BA: No FFR
BA: No FCR
BA: No FFR or FCR
BESS
BESS: No FFR or FCR
PV
PV: No peer-to-peer or FCR

NOK 50 575
NOK 44 544
NOK 20 332
NOK −17 051
NOK −93 341
NOK 84 133
NOK −60 363
NOK −33 999
NOK −40 550

BA
BA: No peer-to-peer
BA: No FFR
BA: No FCR
BESS

7.42%
6.95%
5.23%
2.27%
4.92%

No FFR or FCR’’ demonstrates a negative NPV in our case in contrast
with Lüth et al. (2018) and Zepter et al. (2019) which do not include
the capital expenditure for PVs in the valuation.
The choice of discount rate has a large impact on the NPVs above.
The literature shows no convergence on a specific discount rate to use
for investments in PV and/or BESS. The discount rates utilized range
between 0.38% and 9.2% (Lüth et al., 2018; Zepter et al., 2019; Andreolli et al., 2022; Castellini et al., 2021; Peng et al., 2021; Chaianong
et al., 2020; Berg et al., 2021; Moon and Baran, 2018; Bertolini et al.,
2018). We conduct a sensitivity analysis on the discount rates in order
to examine the robustness of the NPVs to changes in discount rates.
In line with the literature, a discount interval of [0%, 10%] has been
chosen.
The cases shown in Table 6 are the cases where the NPV changes
its conclusion within the discount rate interval of [0%, 10%]. For
cases without balancing market participation of BESS investment, the
NPV remains negative no matter the discount rate. The results above,
however, do not capture the potential value-add that can arise when
deferring an investment. Thus, when there is uncertainty, a ROV can
result in investment decisions suggesting that deferral is more valuable
than immediate investment.
To further analyze the potential value of deferral, we apply the real
options approach to determine the optimal timing of the investment.

4.4. PV-BESS investment analysis
This section presents the investment valuation results. The resulting
NPVs of the different cases are shown in Table 5.
The results show that the case with the highest NPV is ‘‘BA’’, where
all possible income streams are available. Further, the participation of
balancing markets heavily determines the NPV of the cases; all cases
with negative NPV are those where one or both balancing markets are
not available to the energy community. In addition, the cases with PV
investment only will always yield negative NPV.
Comparing the positive NPVs with the literature yields interesting
insights. First, the NPV rule suggests an investment in the ‘‘BESS’’ case.
This contradicts Castellini et al. (2021) who exclude batteries, arguing
they are not yet cost-effective. While they consider peer-to-peer trading,
our approach also incorporates energy arbitrage and balancing market
participation, income streams not accounted for in their analysis. These
results are also in contrast to Ahčin et al. (2019) who find that investment in batteries for FCR and peak load reduction is highly unprofitable
regardless of PV ownership. When omitting balancing markets, ‘‘BA:
9

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

Table 7
Results of the real options analysis.
Case

ROV
[NOK]

Year of investment [%]
0

BA
BA: No peer-to-peer
BA: No FFR
BA: No FCR
BA: No FFR or FCR
BESS
BESS: No FFR or FCR
PV
PV: No peer-to-peer or FCR
a

86 486
81 283
60 589
28 386
0
90 764
0
56 254
0

1

2

3

4

1.41
1.06
2.78

98.59
98.94
97.22
100.00

23.32

69.17

0.47

99.53

NIa

100.00
0.06

0.94

6.52

100.00
100.00

Never Invest.

The results from the ROV for the different cases are derived from 10
000 simulations and presented in Table 7.
In Table 7, both the ROV and the distribution of investment timing
is presented. By investment timing distribution, we refer to the distribution of the timing of investments made during the decision period for
different simulation paths. In the real options framework, an energy
community would receive positive return for investing in any of the
cases; the results in Table 7 therefore imply that it is financially viable
for an energy community to invest in either PV and/or BESS within
the next five years in cases where one or both balancing markets are
available.
Further, we can observe that for the cases where balancing markets
are available, most simulations prefer an investment postponement
until the last year. This is due to the steep negative drift rate of
the investment cost of the technologies of concern, which makes it
more attractive for the energy community to wait for the decrease in
investment costs. Comparing the ‘‘BESS’’ case with the ‘‘BA’’ and ‘‘PV’’
case shows however, that the investment in PV is more affected by the
steep negative drift rate of the investment cost.
Moreover, in the cases without the balancing markets as income
streams, the ROV remains 0 and the energy community never invests
in PVs or BESS. The key takeaway is that the participation of balancing
markets is a crucial factor for the eventual investment in PVs and
BESS. If Statnett wishes to obtain new flexible resources from energy
communities in the near future, they should therefore allow those
communities to participate in the balancing markets.
A comparison of the NPV approach and the ROV approach is
illustrated in Fig. 6. For three of the cases, the ROV is the same
as the NPV. These are the cases where both balancing markets are
unavailable and investments never take place. Note also that in the real
options framework, the additional ROV of ‘‘PV’’ is the highest, while
the additional ROV for ‘‘BESS’’ is quite small. Therefore the value of
investment deferral is higher for PVs than that for BESS.
Both Tables 4 and 7 show that energy communities with BESS and
PVs can be profitable, which raises the question of why there is a low
prevalence of such energy communities today. However, there are some
other barriers that are not addressed in this paper. To participate in
the balancing markets, an aggregator is necessary. Currently, there are
no such aggregators. This presents a question of whether communities or aggregators should be established first. However, it has been
shown that investments are profitable even without balancing markets, suggesting that energy communities could emerge even without
aggregation.

profitability of the energy communities, with FCR providing more value
due to its shorter commitment time, particularly benefiting households
with EVs. peer-to-peer trading also contributes to savings, though less
than balancing market participation.
Further, the interyear volatility in savings of PV-BESS investment
is found to be relatively small, increasing the value of immediate investment. Several factors contribute to this finding. Spot price volatility
does not fully translate into savings volatility because batteries smooth
out potential spikes during the 24-hour optimization period. Additionally, the mean-reverting nature of spot prices prevents extreme changes
over multiple years. The same applies to FCR prices. However, FCR
volatility does not fully translate into savings volatility for a different
reason. Multiple uncorrelated income streams help mitigate the impact
of drops in FCR prices. In instances where FCR prices are low, the
optimization model can select alternative cost-saving options, such as
energy arbitrage. Other factors that could contribute to higher savings
volatility include different modeling approaches for PV production and
demand, as these cannot be predicted over 24 h, unlike FCR and spot
prices, which are cleared before optimization. Furthermore, FFR prices
may change. In summary, BESS is crucial for capitalizing on spot price
opportunities, while having multiple income streams is essential to
avoid dependency on any single source.
Future research could address optimizing energy community configurations, such as clustering prosumers, and investigating the role of
aggregators in enhancing system efficiency. It is also interesting to examine how to design TSO–DSO coordination as TSO’s flexibility needs
elevate congestion risk at the distribution level. Additionally, integrating intraday markets as a potential income stream would be valuable,
although it may require a stochastic bidding model and substantial
computational power to simulate over large systems and extended time
periods. Finally, incorporating more detailed modeling of EV behavior
and battery degradation would offer a deeper understanding of the
system’s full potential.

CRediT authorship contribution statement
Ole Herman Imset: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation,
Conceptualization. Rubab Ishmam: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Methodology, Formal analysis, Data curation,
Conceptualization. Jakob Kleinau: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data
curation, Conceptualization. Maria Lavrutich: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Project administration, Conceptualization. Dung-Bai
Yen: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization,
Validation, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation,
Conceptualization.

5. Conclusion
In this paper, we assess the financial viability of investing in PV and
BESS systems for energy communities. We find that having multiple
income streams enhances cost savings resilience, as they can offset
losses when one stream becomes less effective or unavailable. The
participation in the balancing markets plays a crucial role in the
10

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

Fig. 6. Investigating the added value of ROV.

Table 8
Investment valuation inputs.
Parameter

Value

𝐼𝑃 𝑉
𝐼𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆
𝑇𝑂𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑎𝑙
𝑇𝑅𝑒𝑖𝑛𝑣𝑒𝑠𝑡𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆
𝑇𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛
𝑁𝑆𝑖𝑚𝑢𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠
𝑟
𝛼𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆
𝛼𝑃 𝑉
𝜎𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑆
𝜎𝑃 𝑉

480 000 NOK
405 000 NOK
25 Years
13 Years
25 Years
10 000
3.7%
−11%
−14%
9%
8%

Declaration of Generative AI and AI-assisted technologies in the
writing process
During the preparation of this work the authors used ChatGPT in
order to improve readability. After using this tool, the authors reviewed
and edited the content as needed and take full responsibility for the
content of the published article.

Appendix A. Least squares Monte Carlo algorithm
See Fig. 7.

Appendix B. Investment valuation inputs and estimation of parameters for price processes
Fig. 7. Simplified graphical illustration of the LSM algorithm.

See Table 8.
See Table 9.

11

Energy Economics 152 (2025) 108985

O.H. Imset et al.

Table 9
Estimated parameters used to simulate price paths.
Spot prices
FCR-N D2 prices

𝛼1

𝛽1

𝜎12

𝛾

𝛼2

𝜎22

𝛼3

𝜎32

𝑝11

𝑝22

𝑝33

0.0174
0.0375

0.0068
0.0211

0.0120
0.0293

0.1814
0.3720

0.6192
0.6478

0.8987
1.0620

−0.2710
−0.6910

0.3796
0.2344

0.9898
0.9858

0.9628
0.9398

0.9679
0.9390

References

Khorasany, Mohsen, Najafi-Ghalelou, Afshin, Razzaghi, Reza, 2021. A framework for
joint scheduling and power trading of prosumers in transactive markets. IEEE Trans.
Sustain. Energy 12 (2), 955–965.
Kilthau, Maximilian, Asman, Martin, Karmann, Alexandra, Suriyamoorthy, Ghayathri, Beck, Jan-Philip, Regener, Vincenz, Derksen, Christian, Loose, Nils,
Volkmann, Moritz, Tripathi, Shashank, Gehlhoff, Felix, Korotkiewicz, Kamil,
Steinbusch, Philippe, Skwarek, Volker, Zdrallek, Markus, Fay, Alexander, 2023.
Integrating peer-to-peer energy trading and flexibility market with self-sovereign
identity for decentralized energy dispatch and congestion management. IEEE Access
11, 145395–145420.
Kjølle, G., Sand, K., Gramme, E., 2021. Scenarios for the future electricity distribution
grid. In: CIRED 2021 - the 26th International Conference and Exhibition on
Electricity Distribution. vol. 2021, pp. 3259–3263.
Longstaff, Francis A., Schwartz, Eduardo S., 2001. Valuing American options by
simulation: A simple least-squares approach. Rev. Financ. Stud. 14, 113–147.
Lüth, Alexandra, Zepter, Jan Martin, Crespo del Granado, Pedro, Egging, Ruud, 2018.
Local electricity market designs for peer-to-peer trading: The role of battery
flexibility. Appl. Energy 229, 1233–1243.
Ma, Yiju, Verbič, Gregor, Chapman, Archie C., 2019. Estimating the option value of
grid-scale battery systems to distribution network service providers. In: 2019 IEEE
Milan PowerTech. pp. 1–6. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/PTC.2019.8810600.
Mengelkamp, Esther, et al., 2018. Designing microgrid energy markets: A case study:
The brooklyn microgrid. Appl. Energy 210, 870–880.
Moon, Yongma, Baran, Mesut, 2018. Economic analysis of a residential PV system from
the timing perspective: A real option model. Renew. Energy 125, 783–795.
Nguyen, Su, Peng, Wei, Sokolowski, Peter, Alahakoon, Damminda, Yu, Xinghuo, 2018.
Optimizing rooftop photovoltaic distributed generation with battery storage for
peer-to-peer energy trading. Appl. Energy 228, 2567–2580.
Or, Bartu, Bilgin, Gozde, Akcay, Emre Caner, Dikmen, Irem, Birgonul, M. Talat, 2024.
Real options valuation of photovoltaic investments: A case from Turkey. Renew.
Sustain. Energy Rev. 192, 114200.
Peng, Cheng-Yu, Kuo, Cheng-Chien, Tsai, Chih-Ta, 2021. Optimal configuration with
capacity analysis of PV-plus-BESS for behind-the-meter application. Appl. Sci. 11
(17).
Penizzotto, F., Pringles, R., Olsina, F., 2019. Real options valuation of photovoltaic
power investments in existing buildings. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 114, 109308.
Peters, I.M., Breyer, C., Jaffer, S.A., Kurtz, S., Reindl, T., Rinton, S., Vetter, M., 2021.
The role of batteries in meeting the PV terawatt challenge. Joule 5, 1353–1370.
Radu, Adrian-Toni, Eremia, Mircea, Toma, Lucian, 2019. Participation of the electric vehicles in the balancing market. In: 2019 Electric Vehicles International Conference.
EV, IEEE, pp. 1–6.
Ritchie, H., Rosado, P., Roser, M., 2024. ‘‘Data page: Solar photovoltaic module price",
part of the following publication: Hannah Ritchie, Pablo Rosado and Max Roser
(2023) - ‘‘Energy’’. Data adapted from International Renewable Energy Agency,
Nemet, Farmer and Lafond. Retrieved from. https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/
solar-pv-prices.
Schwabeneder, Daniel, Corinaldesi, Carlo, Lettner, Georg, Auer, Hans, 2021. Business
cases of aggregated flexibilities in multiple electricity markets in a European market
design. Energy Convers. Manage. 230, 113783.
Sundaram, Rangarajan K., 1997. Equivalent martingale measures and risk-neutral
pricing: An expository note.
Tang, Shengjin, Yu, Chuanqiang, Wang, Xue, Guo, Xiaosong, Si, Xiaosheng, 2014.
Remaining useful life prediction of lithium-ion batteries based on the Wiener
process with measurement error. Energies 7 (2), 520–547.
Thingvad, Andreas, Ziras, Charalampos, Ray, Guillaume Le, Engelhardt, Jan, Mosbæk, Rasmus Rode, Marinelli, Mattia, 2022. Economic value of multi-market
bidding in nordic frequency markets. In: 2022 International Conference on
Renewable Energies and Smart Technologies. REST, vol. I, pp. 1–5.
Xiao, Xiangsheng, Wang, Jianxiao, Lin, Rui, Hill, David J., Kang, Chongqing, 2020.
Large-scale aggregation of prosumers toward strategic bidding in joint energy and
regulation markets. Appl. Energy 271, 115159.
Zepter, Jan Martin, Lüth, Alexandra, Crespo del Granado, Pedro, Egging, Ruud, 2019.
Prosumer integration in wholesale electricity markets: Synergies of peer-to-peer
trade and residential storage. Energy Build. 184, 163–176.
Ziegler, Micah S., Trancik, Jessika E., 2021. Data Series for Lithium-Ion Battery
Technologies. Harvard Dataverse, http://dx.doi.org/10.7910/DVN/9FEJ7C.

Ahčin, Peter, Berg, Kjersti, Petersen, Idar, 2019. Techno-economic analyis of battery
storage for peak shaving and frequency containment reserve. In: 2019 16th
International Conference on the European Energy Market. EEM, pp. 1–5.
Andreolli, Francesca, D’Alpaos, Chiara, Moretto, Michele, 2022. Valuing investments in
domestic PV-battery systems under uncertainty. Energy Econ. 106, 105721.
Astero, Poria, Evens, Corentin, 2020. Stochastic bidding strategy for electrical vehicle
charging stations to participate in frequency containment reserves markets. IET
Gener. Transm. Distrib. 14 (13), 2566–2572.
Bakke, Ingrid, Fleten, Stein-Erik, Hagfors, Lars Ivar, et al., 2016. Investment in electric
energy storage under uncertainty: A real options approach. Comput. Manag. Sci.
13, 483–500.
Berg, Kjersti, Löschenbrand, Markus, 2022. A data set of a norwegian energy
community. Data Brief 40, 107683.
Berg, Kjersti, Resch, Matthias, Weniger, Thaddäus, Simonsen, Stig, 2021. Economic
evaluation of operation strategies for battery systems in football stadiums: A
Norwegian case study. J. Energy Storage 34, 102190.
Bertolini, Marina, D’Alpaos, Chiara, Moretto, Michele, 2018. Do smart grids boost
investments in domestic PV plants? Evidence from the Italian electricity market.
Energy 149, 890–902.
Bessa, R.J., Matos, M.A., 2014. Optimization models for an EV aggregator selling
secondary reserve in the electricity market. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 106, 36–50.
Bjarghov, Sigurd, Naversen, Christian Ø., Thorvaldsen, Kasper, Farahmand, Hossein,
2019. A three-stage stochastic peer-to-peer market clearing model with real-time
reserve activation. arXiv:1910.10951.
Canals Casals, Lluc, Barbero, Mattia, Corchero, Cristina, 2019. Reused second life
batteries for aggregated demand response services. J. Clean. Prod. 212, 99–108.
Castellini, Marta, et al., 2021. Photovoltaic smart grids in the prosumers investment decisions: a real option model. J. Econom. Dynam. Control 126, 103988, Investment,
Energy and Green Economy.
Chaianong, Aksornchan, Bangviwat, Athikom, Menke, Christoph, Breitschopf, Barbara,
Eichhammer, Wolfgang, 2020. Customer economics of residential PV–battery
systems in Thailand. Renew. Energy 146, 297–308.
Chowdhury, Md. Shahariar, Rahman, Kazi Sajedur, Chowdhury, Tanjia, Nuthammachot, Narissara, Techato, Kuaanan, Akhtaruzzaman, Md., Tiong, Sieh Kiong,
Sopian, Kamaruzzaman, Amin, Nowshad, 2020. An overview of solar photovoltaic
panels’ end-of-life material recycling. Energy Strat. Rev. 27, 100431.
Daglish, Toby, de Bragança, Gabriel Godofredo Fiuza, Owen, Sally, Romano, Teresa,
2021. Pricing effects of the electricity market reform in Brazil. Energy Econ. 97,
105197.
Eichler, M., Türk, D., 2013. Fitting semiparametric Markov regime-switching models to
electricity spot prices. Energy Econ. 36, 614–624.
Hollinger, Raphael, Cortés, Agustín Motte, Erge, Thomas, Engel, Bernd, 2017. Analysis
of the minimum activation period of batteries in frequency containment reserve.
In: 2017 14th International Conference on the European Energy Market. EEM, pp.
1–6.
Huisman, Ronald, Mahieu, Ronald, 2003. Regime jumps in electricity prices. Energy
Econ. 25 (5), 425–434.
Iria, José, Soares, Filipe, Matos, Manuel, 2019. Optimal bidding strategy for an
aggregator of prosumers in energy and secondary reserve markets. Appl. Energy
238, 1361–1372.
Jafarizadeh, Babak, Bratvold, Reidar Brumer, 2009. Taking real options into the
real world: asset valuation through option simulation. In: SPE Annual Technical
Conference and Exhibition?. SPE, pp. SPE–124488.
Janczura, Joanna, Trück, Stefan, Weron, Rafał, Wolff, Rodney C., 2013. Identifying
spikes and seasonal components in electricity spot price data: A guide to robust
modeling. Energy Econ. 38, 96–110.
Janczura, Joanna, Weron, Rafal, 2010. An empirical comparison of alternate
regime-switching models for electricity spot prices. Energy Econ. 32 (5),
1059–1073.
Janczura, Joanna, Weron, Rafal, 2012. Efficient estimation of Markov regime-switching
models: An application to electricity spot prices. AStA Adv. Stat. Anal. 96, 385–407.
Javanshir, Nima, Syri, Sanna, Tervo, Seela, Rosin, Argo, 2023. Operation of district
heat network in electricity and balancing markets with the power-to-heat sector
coupling. Energy 266, 126423.

12

