Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Applied Energy
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/apenergy

Peer-to-peer energy trading of solar and energy storage: A networked
multiagent reinforcement learning approach
Chen Feng , Andrew L. Liu

∗

Edwardson School of Industrial Engineering, Purdue University, Grissom Hall, West Lafayette, 47907, IN, USA

ARTICLE

INFO

Keywords:
Multi-agent reinforcement learning
Distributed energy resources
Peer-to-peer market

ABSTRACT
Utilizing distributed renewable energy resources, particularly solar and energy storage, in local distribution
networks via peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading has long been touted as a solution to improve energy systems’
resilience and sustainability. Consumers and prosumers (that is, those with solar PV and/or energy storage),
however, do not have the expertise to engage in repeated P2P trading, and the zero-marginal costs of
renewables present challenges in determining fair market prices. To address these issues, we propose multiagent reinforcement learning (MARL) frameworks to help automate consumers’ bidding and management of
their solar PV and energy storage resources, under a specific P2P clearing mechanism that utilizes the socalled supply–demand ratio. In addition, we show how the MARL frameworks can integrate physical network
constraints, ensuring the physical feasibility of P2P energy trading and providing a possible pathway for
practical deployment.

1. Introduction
As our society strives to transition towards sustainable energy
sources, distributed renewable resources and energy storage are increasingly seen as key components in creating resilient and sustainable
energy systems. Peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading in local energy
markets offers a promising approach to decentralize and optimize
the allocation of distributed energy resources (DERs). This model
not only empowers consumers and those who can store or generate
energy, known as prosumers, to trade energy directly but also promotes
renewable energy usage and reduces energy losses.
However, implementing P2P trading presents significant challenges.
First, consumers and prosumers lack the technical expertise required
to engage in repeated P2P trading and manage their energy resources
efficiently. Second, renewable energy, such as solar, often has zero
marginal costs, which introduces difficulties in determining fair market
prices for energy trades: a uniform-pricing auction resembling a wholesale energy market would not work since the market clearing prices
would be zero most of the time. Third, while P2P trading only entails
financial transactions, the delivery of energy occurs over the physical
distribution networks. How to maintain network feasibility in a local
P2P trading market is an important yet open question.
In response to these challenges, this paper introduces a decentralized framework utilizing multiagent reinforcement learning (MARL),
which is designed to automate the bidding processes of agents, enhancing the management efficiency of their solar PV and energy storage

resources. Additionally, the framework ensures the feasibility of a
distribution network. Specifically, inspired by the algorithm in [1], we
propose a consensus-based actor-critic algorithm for a decentralized
MARL, in which each agent in a repeated P2P auction is modeled as
a Markov decision problem (MDP). By allowing agents to exchange
information and reach agreements, the proposed framework facilitates
efficient decision-making and resource allocation, while mitigating the
computational and privacy challenges associated with certain centralized learning approaches. In addition, the shared network constraints,
such as voltage regulation, can be learned through the decentralized
approach with a constraint violation incurring a (fictitious) penalty to
each agent’s reward function. We consider this development a potential
approach toward practical deployment of P2P energy trading.
In addition to the modeling and algorithm development, we establish the theoretical conditions for the consensus-MARL algorithm
to converge to an asymptotically stable equilibrium. We consider this
a significant advantage over a purely decentralized approach without
agents’ communication, such as the one in our previous work [2],
in which each agent uses the proximal policy optimization (PPO) approach [3] to solve their own MDP and ignores multiagent interaction.
Through numerical simulations, we compare three different frameworks to implement P2P trading while considering network constraints:
purely decentralized trading using PPO, consensus-MARL, and a centralized learning and decentralized execution approach using the multiagent deep deterministic policy gradient (MADDPG) algorithm [4].

∗ Corresponding author.

E-mail address: andrewliu@purdue.edu (A.L. Liu).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2025.125283
Received 18 July 2024; Received in revised form 11 December 2024; Accepted 3 January 2025
Available online 15 January 2025
0306-2619/© 2025 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

C. Feng and A.L. Liu

Our findings indicate that consensus-MARL achieves higher average
rewards compared to both PPO and MADDPG.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the
literature on P2P energy trading and emphasizes the contribution of
our work. Section 3 introduces the market clearing mechanism based
on the supply–demand ratio, first proposed in [5], which can avoid
zero-clearing prices when the supply resources have zero marginal
costs. Section 4 provides the detailed consensus-MARL formulation and
algorithm, as well as establishing convergence results. The specific
setups and data of our simulation are described in Section 5, along with
numerical results. Finally, Section 6 summarizes our work and points
out several future research directions.

To overcome the drawbacks of fully decentralized and CTDE-based
MARL, algorithms with communication among agents have also been
developed. A notable contribution in this area is the consensus-based
MARL algorithm designed for discrete-space problems, as presented
in [22], and its extension to continuous-space problems in [1]. This
model allows agents to learn and implement policies in a decentralized
manner with limited communication, underpinned by a theoretical
guarantee of convergence under certain conditions. Separately, [23] introduced a Scalable Actor Critic (SAC) framework, particularly relevant
for large-scale networks where an individual agent’s state transition is
influenced only by its neighbors. SAC is distinguished by its reduced
communication needs compared to the CTDE framework and offers
a theoretical guarantee for its policy convergence as well. However,
the SAC framework is only established for discrete state space problems, and its extension and effectiveness in continuous-state space
applications remain unexplored.
In this work, we present several key contributions: First, we develop a comprehensive framework for a P2P energy trading market
while integrating a consensus-based MARL algorithm. This framework
facilitates automated control and bidding of DERs while allowing for
decentralized learning of voltage constraints. Second, we present the
sufficient conditions required for the convergence of the MARL algorithm and show the details of implementing this algorithm using
deep neural networks. Third, we conduct a comparative analysis of
market outcomes derived from three distinct MARL strategies: a naive
decentralization approach, the MADDPG approach, and the proposed
consensus-based MARL. Our findings reveal that the consensus-based
approach notably outperforms the others in achieving better market
outcomes. Our work addresses P2P energy trading under network constraints, which is crucial for integrating distributed renewable energy
sources and enhancing grid stability. The RL-based algorithm we propose, designed for control automation, can be directly implemented on
grid-edge devices, making it highly applicable for distribution networks
with increasing numbers of prosumers.

2. Literature review
The literature on decentralized control of energy transactions in
a distribution network is extensive and diverse. Broadly speaking,
there are two predominant approaches: the distributed optimization approach and P2P bilateral trading. A key method in the former approach
is the alternating direction multiplier method (ADMM), which solves
centralized dispatch problems by iteratively updating price signals for
consumer/prosumer optimization (such as [6–10]). Despite ADMM’s
theoretical convergence under convexity, practical challenges arise: (i)
As an algorithmic approach rather than a market design, ADMM is
subject to the same difficulties faced by a uniform-pricing-based market
of all zero-marginal-cost resources. Specifically, it is prone to ‘bang–
bang’ pricing: market clearing prices plummet to zero in oversupply or
spike to a price ceiling in under-supply. Addressing this with additional
market mechanisms, such as adding ancillary service markets, akin to
wholesale markets, could overly complicate distribution-level markets
for energy trading. (ii) Most distributed algorithms, including ADMM,
are static, lacking real-time adaptability. While online ADMM variants exist [11,12], ensuring network constraints within each iteration
remains an open question. (iii) Assuming consumers or prosumers
can solve complex optimization problems is often unrealistic due to
potential expertise or resource limitations.
These limitations form the basis of our interest in exploring P2P
bilateral trading. Consequently, our literature review will focus on
this alternative approach. There have been multiple review papers
on the large and ever-growing literature on P2P energy trading [13–
17]. Within the literature, we focus on the works that explicitly consider distribution network constraints. [18] proposes a continuous double auction framework within which physical network constraints are
maintained through a sensitivity-based approach. The agents in the
auction are the so-called zero-intelligence-plus (ZIP) traders, who employ simple adaptive mechanisms without any learning of the repeated
multi-agent interactions. More sophisticated than ZIP, a fully decentralized MARL is adopted in [19] to realize decentralized voltage
control and is extended in [2] to form a P2P energy trading market
with physical constraints. These two papers implement a completely
decentralized approach in the sense that each agent ignores the multiagent interaction as well and just learns their single-agent policy to
maximize their own payoff.
Another MARL approach that has been explored is the centralized
training and decentralized execution (CTDE) framework, of which the
multi-agent deep deterministic policy gradient (MADDPG) method [4]
is a prominent example. It is applied in [20] to solve the autonomous
voltage control problem In [21], a modified MADDPG algorithm is proposed for a double-sided auction market to facilitate P2P energy trading, although physical constraints are not considered in their model.
While the CTDE framework can lead to more efficient learning and
robust outcomes, its dependence on a centralized entity for collecting
and coordinating all agents’ data introduces difficulties for practical
implementations and potential vulnerabilities, such as increased risk of
single-point failures and higher susceptibility to cyber-attacks.

3. Market clearing mechanism
In this section, we first describe a clearing mechanism, referred to as
the supply–demand-ratio (SDR) [5], that can address the two potential
issues faced by a renewable-dominated P2P market: (i) marginal-costbased pricing yielding zero market prices, and (ii) the bang–bang
outcomes in a double-auction-based mechanism, as the reserve prices
for buyers (the utility rates) and the sellers (usually the feed-in tariffs)
are publicly known. The second issue is unique to the P2P energy
market, in our opinion, and the bang–bang phenomenon is documented
in [24] and will be explained further in this section.
The SDR-clearing mechanism in P2P markets has been detailed in
our earlier work [2]. For completeness, we briefly revisit it here. Let
 = {1, 2, … , 𝐼} represent all consumers and prosumers, all referred to
as agents. We assume that trading among the agents takes place in fixed
rounds (such as hourly or every 15 min) and is cleared ahead of time
(such as day-ahead or hour-ahead). In each trading round 𝑡, each agent
𝑖 ∈  submits bids (𝑏𝑖,𝑡 ) to buy (if 𝑏𝑖,𝑡 < 0) or sell (if 𝑏𝑖,𝑡 > 0) energy.
Agents can switch roles between buyers and sellers across different
rounds, but not within the same round. For a round 𝑡, the sets of buyers
and sellers are denoted as 𝑡 = {𝑖 ∶ 𝑏𝑖,𝑡 < 0} and 𝑡 = {𝑖 ∶ 𝑏𝑖,𝑡 ≥ 0},
respectively.
The SDR mechanism, originally proposed in [5], is an approach to
clear a market with all zero-marginal-cost supply resources, which is
straightforward to implement. An SDR is defined as the ratio between
total supply and demand bids at 𝑡; that is,
/
∑
∑
𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 ∶=
𝑏𝑖,𝑡 −
𝑏𝑖,𝑡 .
(1)
𝑖∈𝑡

𝑖∈𝑡

To ensure that 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 is well-defined, we assume 𝑡 ≠ ∅ for any 𝑡,
a reasonable assumption given agents’ continuous need for energy. In
2

Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

C. Feng and A.L. Liu

that transactions for buyers and sellers are at least as favorable as dealing directly with the utility. Second, it simplifies the bidding process
by requiring only quantity bids. This allows consumers with flexible
loads to focus on adjusting their demand timings, and prosumers to
better manage their energy storage and sales strategies, without the
complexity of submitting price-quantity pairs.
With the above being said, we are interested in comparing consumer and producer surplus (and their sum, social surplus) between
the marginal-cost-pricing (MCP) approach and the SDR approach. Conceptually, consumer surplus is the difference between the maximum
amount consumers are willing to pay for a good and the amount they
actually pay. Similarly, producer surplus represents the difference between the price producers receive for a good and the cost of producing
it. However, several complicating factors arise in surplus analysis here.
First, both demand and supply have inflexible and flexible components.
For electricity consumption, there is inflexible demand (the so-called
baseload) and flexible demand, with flexibility either coming from
shiftable loads (like EV charging, washers/dryers) or from charging
energy storage. For baseload, we do not know the (aggregated) consumers’ true willingness to pay. We follow the approach in [25] and
use the utility rate as a proxy for consumers’ willingness to pay when
calculating consumer surplus for the inflexible load; that is, (UR clearing price) × baseload. For flexible load, we assume consumers’
willingness to pay is represented by a downward-sloping curve, as
shown in Figs. 2 and 3. In these figures, 𝑄𝐵 denotes the total baseload,
̂ denotes the total load, both flexible and inflexible. For supply,
and 𝑄
we have inflexible supply, such as grid-tied solar (that is, there is no
storage). In this case, any energy generated beyond the prosumer’s own
consumption is automatically sold back to the grid. We denote the total
inflexible supply by 𝑆𝐵 . There is also flexible supply, where flexibility
comes entirely from the option to store energy for later sale. For flexible
supply, we assume prosumers’ willingness to sell is represented by an
upward-sloping curve until it hits the total supply capacity (denoted by
̂ as depicted in Figs. 2 and 3.
𝑆),
Next, we analyze the differences in surpluses between MCP and
SDR. We assume that under MCP, consumers and prosumers bid their
true willingness-to-buy and willingness-to-sell curves, respectively. We
must consider different cases we do not know how prosumers would bid
under the SDR mechanism. The first case is when 𝑆̂ < 𝑄𝐵 , meaning
the maximum prosumers’ supply is less than the total baseload. In
this scenario, under MCP, the market clearing price will be 𝑈 𝑅, and
prosumers capture all the surplus (denoted as PS in the figures), as
shown in the left graph of Fig. 2. In the SDR case, regardless of the
agents’ strategies, we will have 0 < 𝑆 𝐷𝑅 < 1, since the total supply
is less than demand. In this case, consumers capture the surplus of
̂ as shown in the right graph of Fig. 2, with the area
(𝑈 𝑅 − 𝑃𝑆 𝐷𝑅 ) × 𝑆,
denoted by CS, and it is easy to see that the social surplus is identical to
the MCP case. This is likely the most common scenario now and in the
near future, where prosumers’ total solar and storage capacity is less
than total inflexible demand. The second case is the opposite extreme,
̂ In this case, 𝑃𝑆 𝐷𝑅 = 0, which is the same as 𝑃𝑀 𝐶 𝑃 .
where 𝑆𝐵 > 𝑄.
As a result, consumers capture all the surplus, and the social surplus is
again identical between MCP and SDR, as shown in the left graph of
Fig. 3. In cases beyond these two extremes, the situation is less clear,
as it depends on how agents bid in both the SDR and MCP markets.
In such cases, we expect that 𝑃𝑆 𝐷𝑅 and 𝑃𝑀 𝐶 𝑃 will differ, making the
analysis of social surplus more complex. We defer this analysis to future
research.
It is important to note, based on Figs. 2 and 3, that the MCP
approach would not present a problem if the willingness-to-buy and
willingness-to-sell curves were known, even when all supply resources
have zero marginal costs, as market clearing prices would not necessarily be 0 or 𝑈 𝑅. However, determining these curves is impractical,
as even consumers and prosumers often do not know their precise
willingness to buy or sell in relation to flexible demand and supply.
This is exactly where the SDR approach offers a distinct advantage: it

Fig. 1. Market clearing using SDR.

rare cases where every agent is a prosumer with excess energy at time 𝑡,
the P2P market can be temporarily suspended, and surplus energy sold
to the grid at a predefined price, which will not impact our model or
algorithm framework. Conversely, if 𝑡 is ∅, indicating no excess energy
for sale at 𝑡, then 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 = 0.
Based on its definition, when 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 > 1, it means that there is
an over-supply. In this case, we assume that the excess energy in the
P2P market is sold to a utility company, a distribution system operator
(DSO), or an aggregator at a pre-defined rate, generally denoted as 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇
(feed-in tariff).1 If 0 ≤ 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 < 1, indicating over-demand in 𝑡, then the
unmet demand bids will purchase energy at a pre-defined utility rate,
denoted as 𝑈 𝑅. Without loss of generality, we assume that 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 < 𝑈 𝑅.2
The SDR mechanism determines the market clearing price as follows:
{
(𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 − 𝑈 𝑅) ⋅ 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 + 𝑈 𝑅, 0 ≤ 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 ≤ 1;
𝑃𝑡 ∶= 𝑃 (𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 ) =
(2)
𝐹 𝐼𝑇 ,
𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 > 1.
In (2), 𝑃𝑡 denotes the market clearing price in round 𝑡, which is a
piece-wise linear function with respect to the 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 , as illustrated in
Fig. 1.
While the SDR approach may be criticized for not being based
on economic theories, we argue that its simplicity and transparency
make it well-suited for a P2P energy market with zero marginal cost
resources. In our previous work [24], we identified that a P2P energy
market using a traditional double-sided auction is unlikely to perform
well due to its unique characteristics. Specifically, uncleared electricity
demand bids must be bought at the 𝑈 𝑅 rate, and uncleared energy
supply bids must be sold at 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 , with both rates known to all market
participants. The public information of 𝑈 𝑅 and 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 naturally leads
sellers to bid at 𝑈 𝑅 and buyers to bid at 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 , aiming to maximize their
payoffs, since the marginal generation costs are zero. This will result in
a bang–bang market outcome: when there is overdemand, the market
price is 𝑈 𝑅; when there is oversupply, the price is 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 . We view the
SDR approach as a fair and reasonable alternative to the marginal-costbased approach to avoid such outcomes, especially in a new market
where supply is likely much less than demand.
Additionally, the SDR method offers two key benefits: First, it
maintains the market clearing price between 𝑈 𝑅 and 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 , ensuring

1
The 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 rate is a rate set by utilities/policymakers. It can be set as zero
and will not affect the pricing mechanism in any way.
2
If 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 > 𝑈 𝑅, it means that energy consumers pay more than the utility
rate to purchase energy from the prosumers, which is equivalent to a direct
subsidy from energy consumers (including low-income consumers who do not
have the means to invest in DERs) to prosumers. This cannot be justified from
an equity perspective.

3

Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

C. Feng and A.L. Liu

Fig. 2. Social surplus comparison: total zero-marginal-cost supply less than total inflexible load.

Fig. 3. Social surplus: total zero-marginal-cost supply more than total inflexible load.

removes the need for agents to define their true preferences – which
are inherently uncertain – and simply requires them to bid quantities.
Moreover, in at least two cases, there is no loss in social surplus, and
in fact, the SDR mechanism results in greater consumer surplus when
demand significantly exceeds prosumer supply.

is the concatenation of the states of each agent, where 𝐼 is the total
number of agents. Specifically, the individual state variable is defined
𝑝
𝑞
𝑝
𝑞
as 𝑠𝑖,𝑡 ∶= (𝑑𝑖,𝑡
, 𝑑𝑖,𝑡
, 𝑒𝑖,𝑡 , 𝑃 𝑉𝑖,𝑡 ) ∈ 𝑖 , where 𝑑𝑖,𝑡
and 𝑑𝑖,𝑡
are the inflexible
demand of active and reactive power of agent 𝑖, 𝑒𝑖,𝑡 is the state of charge
of agent 𝑖’s energy storage system, and 𝑃 𝑉𝑖,𝑡 is the PV (real) power
generation in 𝑡.
𝑝
𝑞
Among the state variables, (𝑑𝑖,𝑡
, 𝑑𝑖,𝑡
, 𝑃 𝑉𝑖,𝑡 ) are only observations
because their transitions adhere to underlying distributions that are
independent of agents’ actions. In contrast, the transition of 𝑒𝑖,𝑡 is
influenced by agents’ actions, with details to be elaborated further
below after agents’ actions are defined.
The assumption that each agent is required to observe the whole
system’s state may appear to be strong in a decentralized setting and
is prone to criticisms and privacy concerns. Our responses are twofold:
first, the identity of the agents is irrelevant, and hence, from an agent’s
perspective, which state variable corresponds to which specific agent
is not known. Second, the proposed algorithms are intended to be
implemented on devices that can receive information from the grid
(generally referring to a utility or a distributed system operator) and
automatically participate in the repeated P2P market without human
intervention (aka control automation). The information received by the
devices should be encrypted and can only be decrypted by the controlautomation devices. Grant ed that the devices could be compromised,
there have been works on how to address adversarial attacks in a
multi-agent reinforcement learning framework [26], which leads to
interesting future research directions.
Action or control variables: at time 𝑡, the actions that agent 𝑖 can take
are represented by a vector 𝑎𝑖,𝑡 ∶= (𝑎𝑞𝑖,𝑡 , 𝑎𝑒𝑖,𝑡 ) ∈ 𝑖 = 𝑞𝑖 ×𝑒𝑖 , where 𝑎𝑞𝑖,𝑡 is
the reactive power injected or absorbed by agent 𝑖’s smart inverter, and
𝑎𝑒𝑖,𝑡 is energy charged (if 𝑎𝑒𝑖,𝑡 > 0) to or discharged (if 𝑎𝑒𝑖,𝑡 < 0) from the
battery. The feasible action spaces of 𝑎𝑞𝑖,𝑡 and 𝑎𝑒𝑖,𝑡 are generically denoted

4. Decentralized learning with consensus updates
In this section, we first formulate the decision-making problem
faced by each agent as a MDP. (For brevity, we only describe a
prosumer’s problem. A pure consumer’s problem is similar, just without
the supply bids.) We then introduce the details of the consensus-MARL
algorithm.
4.1. Markov decision process for a prosumer
In our setup, we assume that each prosumer locates at one bus of the
distribution network and has two resources under their control: a solar
photovoltaic (PV) system with a smart inverter, and a rechargeable
battery as energy storage. Each prosumer also has a fixed baseload of
energy consumption. At a particular time period t, whether a prosumer
is a net energy seller or a buyer depends on their baseload versus the
level of PV generation and energy storage.
Due to the presence of energy storage, each agent’s bidding and
charging decisions are linked over time, which are naturally modeled
through dynamic programming. Since an agent’s decisions at 𝑡 only
depend on its energy storage level at 𝑡 − 1 and the PV generation in 𝑡, a
discrete-time MDP model is suitable here. In the following, we describe
the key building blocks of each agent’s MDP model.
Observation and state variables: Agent 𝑖 ∈  at time step 𝑡 is assumed
𝐼  , which
to receive the system states 𝑠𝑡 = (𝑠1,𝑡 , … , 𝑠𝐼 ,𝑡 ) ∈  ∶= 𝛱𝑖=1
𝑖
4

Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

C. Feng and A.L. Liu

by 𝑞𝑖 and 𝑏𝑖 , respectively. In the specific context of our model, it is
safe to assume that the action space 𝑖 = 𝑞𝑖 × 𝑒𝑖 is bounded.
State transition: Out of the state variables defined earlier, the energy
storage level 𝑒𝑖,𝑡 is the only one that is directly affected by an agent’s
own action. The state transition for 𝑒𝑖,𝑡 can be written as follows:
{
[
] }
1
𝑒𝑖,𝑡+1 = max min 𝑒𝑖,𝑡 + 𝜂𝑖𝑐 max(𝑎𝑒𝑖,𝑡 , 0) + 𝑑 min(𝑎𝑒𝑖,𝑡 , 0), 𝑒𝑖 , 0 ,
(3)
𝜂𝑖

network has 𝑁 buses, we have that for 𝜅 = 1, … , 𝑁 (the time index 𝑡
is omitted below for simplicity):

where 𝜂𝑖𝑐 and 𝜂𝑖𝑑 are the charging and discharging efficiency of agent
𝑖’s battery, respectively, and 𝑒𝑖 is the battery capacity. The charging
efficiency represents the ratio of the amount of energy effectively stored
in the system to the energy input during the charging process; while
the discharging efficiency is the ratio of the energy delivered by the
system during discharge to the energy that was initially stored in it.
Their product, 𝜂𝑖𝑐 × 𝜂𝑖𝑑 , yields the so-called round-trip efficiency. The
outside ‘‘max’’ operation in (3) is to ensure that the energy level in
the battery will not be negative; while the first ‘‘min’’ operation in the
bracket is to ensure that the battery storage capacity is not exceeded.
Reward: Each agent 𝑖’s reward function is affected by both the
collective actions of the agents and the system states. Specifically, agent
𝑖’s reward in time step 𝑡, denoted by 𝑟𝑖,𝑡 , is a random variable whose
conditional expectation has three components as follows:

In the above system of nonlinear equations, 𝑝𝜅 ’s and 𝑞𝜅 ’s are input
data, with 𝑝𝜅 being the net real power injection (or withdrawal) at
∑
bus 𝜅 (i.e. 𝑝𝜅 = 𝑖∈𝜅 𝑏𝑖 , with 𝑏𝑖 given in (6) and 𝜅 denoting the
set of agents at bus 𝜅), and 𝑞𝑘 being the net reactive power flow at
∑
bus 𝑘 (i.e. 𝑞𝜅 = 𝑖∈𝜅 (−𝑑𝑖𝑞 + 𝑎𝑞𝑖 )). The variables are |𝑉𝜅 | and 𝛼𝜅 for
𝜅 = 1, … , 𝑁, with |𝑉𝜅 | being the voltage magnitude and 𝛼𝜅 the phase
angle at bus 𝜅. The terms 𝐺𝜅 𝑗 and 𝐵𝜅 𝑗 are parameters that represent
the real and imaginary parts of the admittance of branch 𝜅-𝑗 in the
network, respectively.
At a given round 𝑡 of the P2P trading, for a given set of the real and
reactive power injection/withdrawal as the result of agents’ bidding, if
the system of Eqs. (7) has a solution,3 then we can define the voltage
violation penalty as follows:
𝑁
[
]
∑
clip max(|𝑉𝜅 ,𝑡 | − 𝑉 𝜅 , 𝑉 𝜅 − |𝑉𝜅 ,𝑡 |), {0, 𝑀} .
𝑟𝑣 ∶= −𝜆
(8)

𝑒
𝑒
𝑣
E[𝑟𝑖,𝑡 |𝑠𝑡 , 𝑎𝑡 ] ∶= E[𝑟𝑚
𝑖 (𝑎𝑖,𝑡 ; 𝑎−𝑖,𝑡 , 𝑠𝑡 )] + E[𝑟 (𝑎𝑖,𝑡 ; 𝑎−𝑖,𝑡 , 𝑠𝑡 )]∕𝐼

+ E[𝑟𝑙 (𝑎𝑖,𝑡 ; 𝑎−𝑖,𝑡 , 𝑠𝑡 )]∕𝐼 .

𝑝𝜅 =

𝑞𝜅 =

𝑁
∑

(7)
|𝑉𝜅 ||𝑉𝑗 |(𝐺𝜅 𝑗 sin(𝛼𝜅 − 𝛼𝑗 ) − 𝐵𝜅 𝑗 cos(𝛼𝜅 − 𝛼𝑗 )).

𝑗=1

𝜅=1

(4)
In (8), 𝑉 𝜅 and 𝑉 𝜅 represent the upper and lower limit of bus 𝑘’s voltage
magnitude, respectively. Let 𝑓𝑐 𝑙𝑖𝑝 denote a generic ‘clip’ function in the
form of 𝑓𝑐 𝑙𝑖𝑝 = clip[𝑥, {𝑣𝑚𝑖𝑛 , 𝑣𝑚𝑎𝑥 }], which is defined as 𝑓𝑐 𝑙𝑖𝑝 = 𝑥 when
𝑣𝑚𝑖𝑛 ≤ 𝑥 ≤ 𝑣𝑚𝑎𝑥 , 𝑓𝑐 𝑙𝑖𝑝 = 𝑣𝑚𝑖𝑛 if 𝑥 < 𝑣𝑚𝑖𝑛 , and 𝑓𝑐 𝑙𝑖𝑝 = 𝑣𝑚𝑎𝑥 if 𝑥 > 𝑣𝑚𝑎𝑥 .
Based on the clip function definition, if the voltage magnitudes |𝑉𝜅 ,𝑡 |
obtained from solving Eqs. (7) are within the voltage limit of [𝑉 𝜅 , 𝑉 𝜅 ]
on every bus 𝜅 = 1, … , 𝑁, then 𝑅𝑣 = 0; if there is voltage violation
at a certain bus 𝜅, the term max(|𝑉𝜅 ,𝑡 | − 𝑉 𝜅 , 𝑉 𝜅 − |𝑉𝜅 ,𝑡 |) becomes
positive, and 𝑟𝑣 becomes a negative number with an arbitrary positive
number 𝜆 to amplify the voltage violation. The other positive parameter
in (8), 𝑀, is just to ensure that the reward 𝑟𝑣 is bounded below, a
technical condition needed to ensure the convergence of the consensus
MARL algorithm to be introduced in the next section. If the power flow
Eqs. (7) do not have a solution with a given set of agents’ bids, we can
simply set 𝑟𝑣 = −𝜆 ⋅ 𝑁 ⋅ 𝑀.
The third term in the reward function (4), 𝑟𝑙 , is the line capacity
violation penalty over the entire distribution network at a given time
𝑡. Let 𝑆𝜅 ,𝑗 denote the apparent power flow from bus 𝜅 to bus 𝑗, which
is defined as 𝑆𝜅 ,𝑗 = 𝑉𝑗 𝐼𝜅∗,𝑗 , where 𝐼𝜅∗,𝑗 is the complex conjugate of 𝐼𝜅 ,𝑗
– the current from bus 𝜅 to bus 𝑗. 𝐼𝜅 ,𝑗 is calculated 𝐼𝜅 ,𝑗 = 𝑌𝜅 ,𝑗 (𝑉𝜅 − 𝑉𝑗 ),
where 𝑌𝜅 ,𝑗 is the complex admittance of the branch between buses 𝜅
and 𝑗, and 𝑉𝜅 and 𝑉𝑗 are the voltages from the power flow equations in
(7). Let  be the set of branches with constraints on the magnitude of
the apparent power flow. The total line capacity violation penalty can
then be defined as follows:
]
[
∑
𝑟𝑙 ∶= −𝛾
min max(|𝑆𝜅 ,𝑗 | − 𝑆 𝜅 ,𝑗 , 0), 𝐶 ,
(9)

where I𝑖∈𝑡 is an indicator function such that I𝑖∈𝑡 = 1 if 𝑖 ∈ 𝑡 , and
0 otherwise. Similarly, I𝑖∈𝑡 = 1 if ∈ 𝑡 and 0 otherwise. 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 is the
supply–demand-ratio as defined in (1), which depends on all agents’
bids, and the bids further depend on each agent’s charging/discharging
decisions, as well as the PV generation and the baseload. Specifically,
the bids can be explicitly written as
if 𝑎𝑒𝑖,𝑡 ≥ 0,

|𝑉𝜅 ||𝑉𝑗 |(𝐺𝜅 𝑗 cos(𝛼𝜅 − 𝛼𝑗 ) + 𝐵𝜅 𝑗 sin(𝛼𝜅 − 𝛼𝑗 )),

𝑗=1

In (4), the notation 𝑎−𝑖,𝑡 refers to the collection of all other agents’
actions, excluding agent 𝑖’s; while 𝑎𝑒−𝑖,𝑡 refers to only the energy charge/
discharge decisions of the other agents. The first term 𝑟𝑚
𝑖 in (4) is
the energy purchase cost or sales profit of agent 𝑖 from the P2P
energy market (with the superscript ‘m’ standing for ‘market’), whose
formulation is as follows:
[
]
⎧I
⎪ 𝑖∈𝑡 × 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 ⋅ 𝑃𝑡 ⋅ 𝑏𝑖,𝑡 + (1 − 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 ) ⋅ 𝑈 𝑅 ⋅ 𝑏𝑖,𝑡
(
)
⎪
𝑟𝑚
(5)
if 0 ≤ 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 ≤ 1,
𝑖 ∶= ⎨+ I𝑖∈𝑡 × 𝑃𝑡 ⋅ 𝑏𝑖,𝑡 ,
⎪
⎪𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 ⋅ 𝑏 , if 𝑆 𝐷𝑅 > 1,
𝑖,𝑡
𝑡
⎩

⎧
𝑝
𝑒 𝑒𝑖 −𝑒𝑖,𝑡
⎪𝑃 𝑉𝑖,𝑡 − 𝑑𝑖,𝑡 − min(𝑎𝑖,𝑡 , 𝜂𝑖𝑐 ),
𝑏𝑖,𝑡 = ⎨
⎪𝑃 𝑉𝑖,𝑡 − 𝑑 𝑝 − max(𝑎𝑒 , −𝑒𝑖,𝑡 ⋅ 𝜂 𝑑 ),
𝑖,𝑡
𝑖,𝑡
𝑖
⎩

𝑁
∑

(6)

otherwise,

which is simply the net energy of PV generation minus baseload demand (of real power) and charge to the battery. Since PV generation is
inherently variable, this net available energy is also a random variable.
The market clearing price 𝑃𝑡 in (5) is defined in (2).
Note that when 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 < 1, not all demand bids will be cleared in
the P2P market at time 𝑡. In such instances, they will need to purchase
the needed energy at the utility rate, leading to the 𝑈 𝑅 ⋅ 𝑏𝑖,𝑡 term when
defining the reward 𝑅𝑚
𝑖 in Eq. (5). To ensure fairness and prevent any
inadvertent favoritism among the demand bids, we employ a mechanism where each demand bid is partially cleared. Specifically, the
clearance proportion is exactly 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 (which represents the percentage
of total demand bids cleared), and the uncleared bid for every agent is
then (1 − 𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 ) ⋅ 𝑏𝑖,𝑡 . This approach of proportional scaling echoes the
rules used in multi-unit double auctions in [27].
The second term in the reward function (4), 𝑟𝑣 , is the system voltage
violation penalty at a given time 𝑡. To provide an explicit form of 𝑟𝑣 ,
we first write out the standard bus-injection model. Assume that the

(𝜅 ,𝑗)∈

where 𝑆 𝜅 ,𝑗 represent the upper limit of branch 𝜅 − 𝑗, 𝐶 is a constant
to ensure that the reward 𝑟𝑙 is bounded below, and 𝛾 is an arbitrary
positive number to amplify the capacity violation. If (7) does not have
a solution, similar to the voltage violation case, we set 𝑟𝑙 = −𝜆 ⋅ 𝑁 ⋅ 𝐶.
We want to clarify that the voltage and line capacity violation penalties are not actual financial penalties for the agents, as market clearing
occurs before real-time energy delivery. Instead, these penalties only
serve as feedback to help agents refine their reinforcement learning
policies. Note that the (fictitious) network violation penalties should
not be confused with the fees utilities charge for grid maintenance. This

3

5

Sufficient conditions under which (7) has a solution are provided in [28].

Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

C. Feng and A.L. Liu

relative action-value function 𝑄𝜃 (𝑠, 𝑎) for a given 𝑎 ∈ , 𝑠 ∈  and
a policy 𝜋𝜃 as:
]
[ 𝐼
∞
∑
1∑
𝑟 − 𝐽 (𝜃) ∣ 𝑠0 = 𝑠, 𝑎0 = 𝑎, 𝜋𝜃 .
(11)
𝑄𝜃 (𝑠, 𝑎) ∶=
E
𝐼 𝑖=1 𝑖,𝑡
𝑡=0

trading market does not account for how utilities impose transmission
and distribution (T&D) maintenance fees, which are typically fixed
rather than volumetric in most U.S. regions [29]. We can adjust the
utility rate (UR, the price ceiling in Fig. 1) to subtract the fixed
charge, and the framework in this paper remains applicable, with the
understanding that each transaction will have to pay an additional grid
maintenance fee.
After market-clearing and solving for voltage magnitudes, the total
reward for agent 𝑖 at time step 𝑡 is realized, as defined in (4). Note that
while we do not explicitly assume to have a DSO in the distribution
network, an entity is still needed to solve Eq. (7). A utility company
can assume such a role. The solution process may even be carried out
by a distributed ledger system, such as on a blockchain.
Objective function: At each 𝑡, agent 𝑖 receives the system state 𝑠𝑡 ,
chooses an action 𝑎𝑖,𝑡 ∈ 𝑖 , and receives a reward 𝑟𝑖,𝑡 . Agent 𝑖’s decision,
given the system state 𝑠𝑡 ∈ , is determined by the policy 𝜋𝜃𝑖 (⋅|𝑠𝑡 ).
This policy is a density function mapping from 𝑖 to [0, ∞) and is
parameterized by 𝜃𝑖 . Here, 𝜃𝑖 is an element of a generic set 𝛩𝑖 ∈ 𝑚𝑖 ,
where the dimensionality 𝑚𝑖 is determined by each agent. In choosing
𝑚𝑖 , each agent faces a tradeoff: it should be large enough to avoid
underfitting, yet not too large to risk overfitting and increased training
∏
time. Let 𝜃 ∶= [𝜃1 , … , 𝜃𝐼 ] and 𝜋𝜃 (⋅|𝑠) = 𝐼𝑖=1 𝜋𝜃𝑖 (⋅|𝑠) be the joint policy
of all agents. In the following discussion of this section, we assume that
{ }
the Markov chains 𝑠𝑡 𝑡≥0 induced by the collective policy 𝜋𝜃 is ergodic
with a stationary distribution 𝜌𝜃 .
Different from a fully decentralized framework, the goal for each
agent in the consensus-update framework is to solve the following
optimization problem:
( 𝐼
)
]
[
𝑇
|
1 ∑ 1∑
|
𝑟𝑖,𝑡 |𝑠0 , 𝜋𝜃 ,
(10)
sup
𝐽 (𝜃) = E𝑠0 ∼𝜌𝜃 lim
|
𝑇 →∞ 𝑇
𝐼 𝑖=1
𝐼 𝛩
𝜃∈𝛩∶=𝛱𝑖=1
|
𝑡=0
𝑖

Note that since all the agents share the same 𝐽 (𝜃), the 𝑄 function does
not need to have an agent index and is the same across the agents.
The function 𝑄𝜃 (𝑠, 𝑎) cannot be calculated by each agent, even if
the global state and action information are shared, since the joint
̂ ⋅; 𝜔𝑖 ) ∶
policy distribution 𝜋𝜃 is not known. Instead, each agent uses 𝑄(⋅,
 ×  → , which is a class of functions parameterized by 𝜔𝑖 ∈ 𝐾 ,
where 𝐾 is the dimension of the 𝜔𝑖 , to approximate the action-value
function 𝑄𝜃 (𝑠, 𝑎). Note that unlike the parameters 𝜃𝑖 , where agents can
choose their own policy models (and hence different dimensions of 𝜃𝑖 ),
the dimension of 𝜔𝑖 has to be the same across all agents (and hence 𝐾
does not have an agent index) to facilitate the consensus update.
The decentralized consensus-update actor-critic algorithm for networked multi-agents works as follows: at the beginning of time step 𝑡+1,
each agent 𝑖 observes the global state 𝑠𝑡+1 and chooses their action 𝑎𝑖,𝑡+1
according to their own policy 𝜋𝜃𝑖,𝑡 (referred to as the ‘actor’), where 𝜃𝑖,𝑡
is the policy parameter for agent 𝑖 at time step 𝑡. Then each agent 𝑖 will
receive the joint action 𝑎𝑡+1 = (𝑎1,𝑡+1 , … , 𝑎𝐼 ,𝑡+1 ) and their own reward
̂ ⋅; 𝜔𝑖 ) (referred to as the ‘critic’) and
𝑟𝑖,𝑡+1 , which help them update 𝑄(⋅,
𝑡
𝜋𝜃𝑖,𝑡 on their own in each time step. Specifically, each agent first updates
the temporal-difference (TD) error 𝛿𝑡𝑖 and long-term return estimate 𝑟̄𝑖𝑡+1
as follows:
(
)
(
)
𝛿𝑡𝑖 ∶= 𝑟𝑖,𝑡+1 − 𝑟̄𝑖𝑡+1 + 𝑄̂ 𝑠𝑡+1 , 𝑎𝑡+1 ; 𝜔𝑖𝑡 − 𝑄̂ 𝑠𝑡 , 𝑎𝑡 ; 𝜔𝑖𝑡
(12)
𝑟̄𝑖𝑡+1 ← (1 − 𝛽𝜔,𝑡 ) ⋅ 𝑟̄𝑖𝑡 + 𝛽𝜔,𝑡 ⋅ 𝑟𝑖,𝑡

(13)

̂ ⋅; 𝜔𝑖 ) for agent 𝑖, and
Let 𝜔
̃𝑖𝑡 denote a temporary local parameter of 𝑄(⋅,
𝑡
it is updated as:
(
)
𝜔
̃𝑖𝑡 = 𝜔𝑖𝑡 + 𝛽𝜔,𝑡 ⋅ 𝛿𝑡𝑖 ⋅ ∇𝜔 𝑄̂ 𝑠𝑡 , 𝑎𝑡 ; 𝜔𝑖𝑡 .
(14)

which is to optimize the average system long-term reward. The objective function resembles a cooperative game, which may face similar
critiques regarding the need for each agent to access system-wide state
variables in a decentralized setting. A pertinent response, as previously
mentioned, is the use of control automation: the objective function
can be integrated into intelligent control devices, making them ‘black
boxes’ for end-users. Additionally, in developing a MARL framework
with provable convergence, some level of global information sharing
among agents is likely unavoidable. The collective objective function,
as outlined in (10), is essential for decentralized agents to reach a
consensus.
To ensure that the objective function in (10) is well-defined, we
have the following result.

The local parameter of the policy 𝜋𝜃𝑖,𝑡 is updated as
𝜃𝑖,𝑡+1 = 𝛤 𝑖 [𝜃𝑖,𝑡 + 𝛽𝜃,𝑡 ⋅ 𝐼̂𝑡𝑄,𝑖 ],

(15)

where 𝛤 𝑖 ∶ R𝑚𝑖 → 𝛩𝑖 ⊂ R𝑚𝑖 is a projector operator. An example is the
orthogonal projector mapping: 𝛤 𝑖 (𝑥) ≜ ar g min𝑦∈𝛩𝑖 ‖𝑦 − 𝑥‖, ∀𝐱 ∈ R𝑚𝑖 ,
where 𝛩 is a compact convex set. The 𝐼̂𝑡𝑄,𝑖 term in (15) is given as
follows:
𝐼̂𝑄,𝑖 =
𝑡

∫𝑖

Lemma 4.1. The supremum in (10), sup𝜃 𝐽 (𝜃), exists and is finite.

(
)
(
) (
)
𝑖
𝑑 𝜋𝜃𝑖,𝑡 𝑎𝑖 ∣ 𝑠𝑡 ∇𝜃𝑖 log 𝜋𝜃𝑖,𝑡 𝑎𝑖 ∣ 𝑠𝑡 𝑄̂ 𝑠𝑡 , 𝑎𝑖 , 𝑎−𝑖
𝑡 ; 𝜔𝑡 .

(16)

To limit communication among agents, each agent 𝑖 only shares local parameter 𝜔
̃𝑖𝑡 with each other; no other information needs to be
shared. A consensual estimate of 𝑄𝜃 (𝑠, 𝑎) can then be estimated through
updating the parameter 𝜔𝑖𝑡+1 as follows:

Proof. Since the market clearing price 𝑃𝑡 , the supply–demand ratio
𝑆 𝐷𝑅𝑡 , and agents bid 𝑏𝑖,𝑡 for 𝑖 = 1, … , 𝐼 are all bounded above, the first
term in an agent’s reward function, 𝑅𝑚
𝑖 , is then bounded above based
𝐼  and 𝑠 ∈ . The second term, 𝑅𝑣 ,
on Eq. (5), for any 𝑎 ∈  ∶= 𝛱𝑖=1
𝑖
is bounded above by 0 based on its definition in Eq. (8). Hence, agent
𝑖’s reward 𝑟𝑖,𝑡 is bounded at any 𝑡, and for any 𝑎 ∈  and 𝑠 ∈ . Since
the number of agents is finite, there exists a common upper bound for
all 𝑟𝑖,𝑡 ’s, and let us denote it as 𝑅. Then by the formulation in (10),
𝐽 (𝜃) ≤ 𝑅 for all 𝜃 ∈ 𝛩. By the well-known least-upper-bound property
of real numbers, we know that sup𝜃 𝐽 (𝜃) exists and is finite. □

𝜔𝑖𝑡+1 =

𝐼
∑

𝜔
̃𝑗𝑡 .

(17)

𝑗=1

To apply such an algorithm to P2P energy trading, we illustrate the
conceptual framework in Fig. 4. The detailed algorithm is presented in
Algorithm 1.

4.3. Convergence results
4.2. Consensus-update actor-critic algorithm
In this section, we discuss the convergence results of Algorithm 1.
For ease of notation, we drop the 𝑡 index of the parameters 𝜃𝑖 for 𝑖 ∈ 
in the following discussions. First, we need a technical condition of
Markov chains, known as the geometric ergodicity.

In this section, we introduce the consensus-update actor-critic algorithm for MARL with continuous state and action spaces, developed
in [1], and apply it to solve Problem (10). First, define the global
6

Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

C. Feng and A.L. Liu

Fig. 4. Consensus MARL Framework for the Voltage Control with P2P Market.

Definition 4.1 (Geometric Ergodicity, Referred to as Uniform Ergodicity in [30]). A Markov chain having stationary distribution 𝜋(⋅) is
geometrically ergodic if

Algorithm 1: Consensus-update actor-critic algorithm for voltage control with P2P energy market
Input: Initial values of the parameters
𝑟̄𝑖 , 𝜔𝑖 , 𝜔
̃𝑖 , 𝜃 𝑖 , ∀𝑖 ∈ {1, … , 𝐼}, the initial state 𝑠0 , and stepsizes
{0 0} 0 0 { }
𝛽𝜔,𝑡 𝑡≥0 and 𝛽𝜃,𝑡 𝑡≥0 .

‖𝑃 𝑚 (𝑥, ⋅) − 𝜋(⋅)‖ ≤ 𝑀 𝑐 𝑚 , 𝑚 = 1, 2, 3, …
for some 0 < 𝑐 < 1 and 0 < 𝑀 < ∞, where 𝑃 is the transition kernel of
the Markov chain.
The concept of geometric ergodicity specifies the rate at which a
Markov chain converges to a stationary distribution if it exists. In the
following, we state the first assumption to ensure the consensus MARL
convergence to a steady state, which requires the Markov chains formed
by the system state and state–action pairs to be both geometrically
ergodic. Grant ed that this assumption cannot be easily verified, it is
essential to the convergence proof.

for each agent 𝑖 = 1, ..., 𝐼 do
Makes the decision on reactive power generation and
(
)
battery charging/discharging 𝑎𝑖,0 ∼ 𝜋𝜃𝑖 ⋅ ∣ 𝑠0 .
0

end
The power flow equation (7) is solved, the P2P energy market
is cleared, and the information of joint actions
(
)
𝑎0 = 𝑎𝑖,0 , … , 𝑎𝐼 ,0 is sent to each agent.
for each agent 𝑖 = 1, ..., 𝐼 do
Observes the reward 𝑟𝑖,0 .
end
for each time step 𝑡 = 0, 1, ...𝑇 do
for each agent 𝑖 = 1, ..., 𝐼 do
Observes the next global state 𝑠𝑡+1 .
Update 𝑟̄𝑖𝑡+1 ← (1 − 𝛽𝜔,𝑡 ) ⋅ 𝑟̄𝑖𝑡 + 𝛽𝜔,𝑡 ⋅ 𝑟𝑖,𝑡 . Makes the decision
on reactive power generation and battery
(
)
charging/discharging 𝑎𝑖,𝑡+1 ∼ 𝜋𝜃𝑖,𝑡 ⋅ ∣ 𝑠𝑡+1 .

Assumption 1. For each 𝑖 ∈ , 𝑠 ∈  and 𝜃𝑖 ∈ 𝛩𝑖 , agent 𝑖’s policy is
(
)
positive; that is, 𝜋𝜃𝑖 𝑎𝑖 ∣ 𝑠 > 0 for all 𝑎𝑖 ∈ 𝑖 . Additionally, 𝜋𝜃𝑖 (⋅ ∣ 𝑠) is
assumed to be continuously differentiable with respect to the parameter
{ }
{(
)}
𝜃𝑖 over 𝛩𝑖 . Finally, the Markov chains 𝑠𝑡 𝑡≥0 and 𝑠𝑡 , 𝑎𝑡 𝑡≥0 induced
by the agents’ collective policies 𝜋𝜃 are both geometrically ergodic,
with the corresponding stationary distribution denoted by 𝜌𝜃 and 𝜌̃𝜃 ,
respectively.

end
The power flow equation (7) is solved, the P2P energy
market is cleared, and the information of joint actions
(
)
𝑎𝑡+1 = 𝑎𝑖,𝑡+1 , … , 𝑎𝐼 ,𝑡+1 is sent to each agent.
for each agent 𝑖 = 1, ..., 𝐼 do
1. Observes the reward 𝑟𝑖,𝑡+1 and update
(
)
(
)
𝛿𝑡𝑖 ← 𝑟𝑖,𝑡+1 − 𝑟̄𝑖𝑡+1 + 𝑄̂ 𝑠𝑡+1 , 𝑎𝑡+1 ; 𝜔𝑖𝑡 − 𝑄̂ 𝑠𝑡 , 𝑎𝑡 ; 𝜔𝑖𝑡 .
(
)
2. Critic step: 𝜔
̃𝑖𝑡 ← 𝜔𝑖𝑡 + 𝛽𝜔,𝑡 ⋅ 𝛿𝑡𝑖 ⋅ ∇𝜔 𝑄̂ 𝑠𝑡 , 𝑎𝑡 ; 𝜔𝑖𝑡 .
3. Actor step: 𝜃𝑖,𝑡+1 ← 𝛤̃ 𝑖 [𝜃𝑖,𝑡 + 𝛽𝜃,𝑡 ⋅ 𝐼̂𝑡𝑄,𝑖 ], where
𝛤 𝑖 ∶ R𝑚𝑖 → 𝛩𝑖 ⊂ R𝑚𝑖 , and
( 𝑖
)
𝐼̂𝑡𝑄,𝑖 =
𝑑𝜋
𝑎 ∣ 𝑠𝑡 ⋅
(18)
∫𝑖 𝜃𝑖,𝑡
(
) (
)
𝑖
∇𝜃𝑖 log 𝜋𝜃𝑖,𝑡 𝑎𝑖 ∣ 𝑠𝑡 𝑄̂ 𝑠𝑡 , 𝑎𝑖 , 𝑎−𝑖
(19)
𝑡 ; 𝜔𝑡 ,

Remark 1. The first part of Assumption 1 is a standard assumption on
policy functions. One example of such a policy is Gaussian: 𝜋𝜃𝑖 (⋅ ∣ 𝑠) ∼
(
)
 𝜂𝜃𝑖 (𝑠), 𝛴𝑖 , where 𝜂𝜃𝑖 (𝑠) ∶  → 𝑖 ∈ R𝑛 is a fully connected neural
network parameterized by 𝜃𝑖 and is continuously differentiable with
respect to 𝜃𝑖 and 𝑠, and 𝛴𝑖 ∈ R𝑛×𝑛 is the covariance matrix.
Assumption 2. The policy parameter 𝜃𝑖 for each agent is updated by
a local projection operator, 𝛤 𝑖 ∶ R𝑚𝑖 → 𝛩𝑖 ⊂ R𝑚𝑖 , that projects any 𝜃𝑖
∏
onto a compact set 𝛩𝑖 . In addition, 𝛩 = 𝐼𝑖=1 𝛩𝑖 includes at least one
local minimum of 𝐽 (𝜃).
Remark 2. The requirement of the local projection operator is standard
in convergence analyses of many reinforcement learning algorithms. If
𝛩𝑖 is a convex set, a qualifying example of 𝛤 𝑖 can be the nearest point
projection on 𝛩𝑖 ; that is,

4. Send 𝜔
̃𝑖𝑡 to the other agent in the system.
end
for each agent 𝑖 = 1, ..., 𝐼 do
∑
Consensus step: 𝜔𝑖𝑡+1 ← 𝐼1 𝐼𝑗=1 𝜔
̃𝑗𝑡 .

𝛤 𝑖 (𝜃𝑖 ) = ar g max
‖𝜃𝑖 − 𝜃𝑖 ∗ ‖2 .
∗

end
end

𝜃𝑖 ∈𝛩𝑖

(20)

Next, we make an assumption on the action-value function approximation.
7

Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

C. Feng and A.L. Liu

Assumption 3. For each agent 𝑖, the action-value function is approx̂ 𝑎; 𝜔) = 𝜔⊤ 𝜙(𝑠, 𝑎) where
imated by linear functions, i.e., 𝑄(𝑠,
[
]⊤
𝜙(𝑠, 𝑎) = 𝜙1 (𝑠, 𝑎), … , 𝜙𝐾 (𝑠, 𝑎) ∈ R𝐾

(DNNs) instead, as they excel in capturing and modeling non-linear
relationships. The downside of using DNNs, however, is that the proof
of Theorem 4.1 is no longer applicable. Consequently, the convergence
of the critic and actor steps remains an unresolved issue, meriting
further investigation in future research.

is the feature associated with (𝑠, 𝑎). The feature function, 𝜙𝑘 ∶  ×  →
R, for 𝑘 = 1, … , 𝐾, is bounded for any 𝑠 ∈ , 𝑎 ∈ . Furthermore, the
{ }𝐾
feature functions 𝜙𝑘 𝑘=1 are linearly independent, and for any 𝑢 ∈ R𝐾
⊤
and 𝑢 ≠ 0, 𝑢 𝜙 is not a constant function over  × .

Remark 5. To guarantee convergence, all agents must use the consensus algorithm. It has been shown in [26] that this consensus-based
MARL algorithm may lack robustness; specifically, a single adversarial
attacker could disrupt the joint reward optimization process. A more
resilient approach is proposed in the follow-up work [31], which could
potentially be adapted to enhance the robustness of our framework.
While the focus is not necessarily on adversarial agents, it would be
valuable to address scenarios where some agents may use different algorithms or act randomly without using any algorithm at all. Exploring
such robustness would be a promising future research direction.

Remark 3. One example of the action-value function approximation is
the Gaussian radial basis function (RBF):
̂ 𝑎; 𝜔) =
𝑄(𝑠,

𝐾
∑

𝜔𝑖 𝑒−𝛾𝑗 ‖[𝑠,𝑎]−𝑐𝑗 ‖ ,

(21)

𝑗=1

where [𝑠, 𝑎] is the concatenation of 𝑠 and 𝑎, 𝛾𝑗 ∈ + for 𝑗 = 1, … , 𝐾,
𝑐𝑗 ∈ ||+|| for 𝑗 = 1, … , 𝐾. The parameters 𝛾𝑗 and 𝑐𝑗 can be chosen
arbitrarily, as long as (𝛾𝑗 , 𝑐𝑗 ) are different with different 𝑗 so that the
feature functions are linearly independent.

Another challenge arises from the dynamic nature of multi-agent
environments, where agents frequently enter or leave the system, resulting in an ever-changing environment. Since the convergence of
consensus MARL depends on the exchange of information between
neighboring agents, the proof of convergence under static agent settings does not carry through in such dynamic scenarios. However, our
algorithm remains valid in these situations, as it adapts by relearning
and retraining the policies to reflect the updated composition of agents.
Its performance, however, may initially be suboptimal during this
adaptation phase. To improve performance in such dynamic settings,
warm-start approaches like transfer learning [32], which facilitates
the transfer of knowledge between domains, may be employed to
accelerate the relearning process. Techniques such as policy distillation
and policy reuse can help retain useful behaviors while adapting to new
conditions. Exploring the application of these techniques in the MARL
context presents a promising direction for future research.
Another challenge arises from the dynamic nature of multi-agent
environments, where agents frequently enter or leave the system, resulting in an ever-changing environment. The convergence of consensus
MARL depends on the exchange of information between neighboring
agents (while our results address the exchange of information with
all agents in the network, the algorithm is also effective for local
neighborhood exchanges, as demonstrated in [1]). As the composition
of agents evolves, the joint state and action spaces of neighboring
agents can change, potentially impacting the learned policies. Transfer
learning [32], which facilitates the transfer of knowledge between domains, may provide a viable solution to adapt policies in such dynamic
settings. Specifically, techniques like policy distillation and policy reuse
can help preserve useful behaviors while adapting to new conditions.
Investigating the application of these techniques in the MARL context
offers a promising direction for future research.

Assumption 4. The stepsizes 𝛽𝜔,𝑡 and 𝛽𝜃 ,𝑡 in Algorithm 1 satisfy
∑
∑
∑
2
+ 𝛽𝜃2,𝑡 ) < ∞.
(22)
𝛽𝜔,𝑡 =
𝛽𝜃,𝑡 = ∞, and
(𝛽𝜔,𝑡
𝑡

𝑡

𝑡

( )
−1 = 1.
Also, 𝛽𝜃,𝑡 = 𝑜 𝛽𝜔,𝑡 and lim𝑡→∞ 𝛽𝜔,𝑡+1 ⋅ 𝛽𝜔,𝑡
An example of such stepsizes can be 𝛽𝜔,𝑡 = 1∕𝑡0.8 and 𝛽𝜃,𝑡 = 1∕𝑡.
With the above assumptions, the convergence of Algorithm 1 is
given below.
Theorem 4.1. Assume that each agent’s state space 𝑖 is compact for
{ } { }
{ }
𝑖 ∈ . Under Assumptions 1–4, the sequences 𝜃𝑖,𝑡 , 𝜇𝑡𝑖 and 𝜔𝑖𝑡
generated from Algorithm 1 satisfy the following.
∑
(i) Convergence of the critic step: 𝐼1 lim𝑡→∞ 𝑖∈ 𝜇𝑡𝑖 = 𝐽 (𝜃), where 𝐽 (𝜃)
is defined in (10), and lim𝑡→∞ 𝜔𝑖𝑡 = 𝜔𝜃 for all 𝑖 ∈ , with 𝜔𝜃 being a
solution of a fixed point mapping. (The convergence is in the sense of
almost surely.)
(ii) Convergence of the actor step: for each 𝑖 ∈ , 𝜃𝑖,𝑡 converges almost
surely to a point 𝜃̂𝑖 that is a projection onto the set 𝛩.
Proof. The general convergence result of the consensus algorithm is
proved in [1] under six assumptions. Our Assumptions 1–4 directly
correspond to four assumptions in [1]. The fifth assumption in [1]
regarding agents’ time-varying neighborhood is trivially true here since
we assume agents can communicate through the whole network, and
the network topology does not change over time. Hence, the only
remaining item to show is the uniform boundedness of agents’ reward
𝑟𝑖,𝑡 . By the definition of the market clearing price 𝑃𝑡 in (2), it is bounded
between 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 and 𝑈 𝑅. Together with the compactness assumption of
the state space 𝑖 (which is reasonable since an agent’s energy demand
and battery/PV capacities are all bounded), the 𝑅𝑚
𝑖 component in the
reward function, as defined in (4), is uniformly bounded. The other two
terms, the voltage violation penalty 𝑅𝑣𝑖 , is uniformly upper bounded by
0 and lower bounded by −𝜆𝑁 𝑀, and the capacity violation penalty
𝑅𝑐𝑖 , is uniformly upper bounded by 0 and lower bounded by −𝜆𝑁 𝐶.
Hence, 𝑟𝑖,𝑡 is uniformly bounded for all 𝑖 and 𝑡, and the convergence
results follow directly from Theorem 2 and 3 in [1]. □

5. Simulation results
5.1. Test data
We test the algorithm frameworks using the IEEE 13-bus test feeder
[33], whose topology is shown in Fig. 5. In our simulations, we set each
bus to have one prosumer, excluding the substation bus; hence, there
are 12 prosumers (and no pure consumers). The length of each time
step is set to be 1 h. The distribution network’s voltage limit is set to
[0.98 pu, 1.01 pu]. The amplifying parameter for voltage violation, 𝜆, is
set at 104 . As for the line capacity constraint, we set an apparent power
constraint of 15 kVA on the line between Node 684 and 671, and the
amplifying parameter for capacity violation, 𝛾, as 102 . The price ceiling
and floor, that is, the utility rate 𝑈 𝑅 and feed-in tariff 𝐹 𝐼 𝑇 , are set
at 14 ¢/kWh and 5 ¢/kWh, respectively. The capacity of each agent’s
PV is set to be 20 kW, and the energy storage capacity is set to be
50 kWh, with the charging and discharging efficiency being 0.95 and

Remark 4. While the theorem establishes the convergence to a steady
state of the critic and actor steps, it does not address how good the
system reward is upon convergence. A key concern in this context
is the potential inadequacy of the linear approximation of the critic
̂ 𝑎; 𝜔) in Assumption 3. In our model, the distribution
function 𝑄(𝑠,
network encompasses a multitude of agents, each exhibiting non-linear
behaviors and interactions that may not be adequately captured by
simple linear models. One natural idea is to deep neural networks
8

Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

C. Feng and A.L. Liu

where 𝛾𝑖 is the discount factor of agent 𝑖. In the fully decentralized
framework, each agent uses the single-agent PPO algorithm from [3]
to update their own policy and value function locally based on only
their own state, action, and reward information.
Since all three MARL approaches are categorized as policy gradient
descent methods, they update the parameter 𝜃𝑡+1 in a similar manner
to approximate gradient ascent of 𝐽 (𝜃) as follows:
̂
𝜃𝑡+1 = 𝜃𝑡 + 𝛽 ∇𝐽
(𝜃𝑡 ),

(25)

̂
where 𝛽 is the step size and ∇𝐽
(𝜃𝑡 ) is a stochastic estimate approximating the gradient of the performance measure. The three MARL
̂
approaches differ in how each agent updates ∇𝐽
(𝜃𝑡 ). To highlight such
differences, we present the specific gradient approximations for the
three approaches below.
In the fully decentralized approach, the gradient update uses local
states and actions only: for each 𝑖 ∈ ,
[
( )
(
)
(
)]
∇𝜃̂
𝐽 𝜃𝑖 = E𝑠∼𝜌𝜃 ,𝑎𝑖 ∼𝜋𝜃 ∇𝜃𝑖 log 𝜋𝜃𝑖 𝑎𝑖 ∣ 𝑠𝑖 𝑄𝜋𝑖 𝑠𝑖 ; 𝑎𝑖 .
(26)
𝑖 𝑖
𝑖

Fig. 5. IEEE-13 test feeder.

In the MADDPG approach, each agent makes decisions based on
only their own state variables. However, their action-value functions
are updated based on the global states and actions of all agents by a
central authority, who is assumed to have access to the global information. Specifically, for each agent 𝑖 ∈ , the gradient approximation in
MADDPG is
[
( )
(
)
(
)]
∇̂
𝐽 𝜃 =E 𝜃
∇ log 𝜋 𝑎 ∣ 𝑠 𝑄𝜋 𝒔; 𝒂 , … , 𝒂
,
(27)

0.9 for each agent. The PV generation of the prosumers and the total
base load of the pure consumers on each bus have fixed diurnal shapes.
These shapes represent the average values corresponding to each hour
of the day. For a detailed explanation and due to page limitations her,
please refer to our earlier paper [2]. Additionally, [2] provides more
information on how the random PV output for each agent is generated.
The power flow Eqs. (7) are solved by the open-source distribution
system simulator OpenDSS [34].

𝜃𝑖 𝑖

𝑠∼𝜌 ,𝑎𝑖 ∼𝜋𝜃𝑖

𝜃𝑖

𝜃𝑖

𝑖

𝑖

𝑖

𝟏

𝑰

(
)
where
𝒔; 𝒂𝟏 , … , 𝒂𝑰 is the centralized action-value function to
be updated by the assumed central authority. The policy function,
(
)
𝜋𝜃𝑖 𝑎𝑖 ∣ 𝑠𝑖 , on the other hand, uses only local states 𝑠𝑖 . This is what
is referred to as centralized training and decentralized execution.
For the consensus framework, the gradient estimation uses the
so-called expected policy gradient as in [1]:
)
𝑄(
∇̂
(28)
𝜃𝑖 𝐽 (𝜃) = E𝑠∼𝜌𝜃 ,𝑎−𝑖 ∼𝜋𝜃 𝜃 𝑠, 𝑎−𝑖 , 𝑖 = 1, … , 𝐼 ,
𝑄𝜋𝑖

5.2. Deep neural network implementation
As stated in Remark 4, we use DNNs instead of linear combinations
̂ To implement the
of features to approximate the critic function 𝑄.
consensus MARL with DNNs, we apply the default architectures of the
actor and critic networks of actor-critic algorithms in RLlib [35]. To be
specific, for the policy function, we use
⎛⎡𝜎 (1) (𝑠)⎤ ⎡𝜎 (3) (𝑠)
0 ⎤⎞
𝜃𝑖
⎥ , ⎢ 𝜃𝑖
⎥⎟ ,
𝜋𝜃𝑖 (⋅|𝑠) ∼  ⎜⎢ (2)
(23)
(4)
⎜⎢𝜎 (𝑠)⎥ ⎢ 0
𝜎𝜃 (𝑠)⎥⎦⎟⎠
⎦ ⎣
⎝⎣ 𝜃𝑖
𝑖

−𝑖

𝑖

where
(
)
(
)
(
)
𝜃𝑄 𝑠, 𝑎−𝑖 = E𝑎𝑖 ∼𝜋𝜃 ∇𝜃𝑖 log 𝜋𝜃𝑖 𝑎𝑖 ∣ 𝒔 𝑄𝜋𝑖 𝒔; 𝒂𝟏 , … , 𝒂𝑰 .
𝑖

𝑖

(29)

While the action-value function 𝑄𝜋𝑖 is the same as in (27), the key difference lies in the policy function. As stated in Section 4.1 and reflected
in (29), each agent 𝑖’s policy depends on all agents’ states 𝒔. The other
difference between the consensus MARL and the MADDPG algorithm is
how the action-value function 𝑄𝜋𝑖 is updated. In MADDPG, the function
is updated through centralized training by a central authority; while in
consensus MARL, updates are executed via a decentralized consensus
process, as described in Section 4.2.

where 𝜎𝜃(1) (𝑠) represents the mean value of the charging/discharging
𝑖

action, and 𝜎𝜃(2) (𝑠) denotes the mean value of the smart inverter action.
𝑖

Similarly, 𝜎𝜃(3) (𝑠) and 𝜎𝜃(4) (𝑠) correspond to the variances of the charg𝑖
𝑖
ing/discharging action and the smart inverter action, respectively. The
function 𝜎𝜃𝑖 (𝑠) ∶  → 4 is implemented as a DNN, parameterized by
𝜃𝑖 . This network comprises two fully connected layers, each consisting
of 256 neurons, and employs a 𝑡𝑎𝑛ℎ activate function following each
layer. A similar neural network architecture is also applied to the
̂ ⋅; 𝜔𝑖 ). The settings of
approximator of the action-value function 𝑄(⋅,
stepsizes are 𝛽𝜔,𝑡 = 1∕𝑡0.65 and 𝛽𝜃,𝑡 = 1∕𝑡0.85 .

5.4. Numerical results
We conduct 20 simulation runs for each of the three frameworks,
each comprising 7000 training episodes, where each training episode
is 24 time steps (corresponding to 24 h in a day). In Fig. 6, the mean
of the convergence curves of the 30-episode moving average of the
episodic total reward in the distribution network is depicted for the 20
runs of each of the three distinct MARL algorithms. The shaded region
represents one standard deviation. It is evident that the mean episodic
total reward gradually converges to a high level at the end of the
training in all three frameworks. The results show that the consensus
MARL algorithm outperforms the fully decentralized framework, which
is in line with expectations, since the consensus-update framework
benefits from improved approximation of the action-value function
through communication. A one-sided Welch’s t-test yields a 𝑝-value
of 7.46 × 10−7 , strongly suggesting the rejection of the null hypothesis
that the episodic total reward of consensus MARL after 7000 training
episodes is less than or equal to that of MADDPG. This result provides

5.3. Comparison of three different MARL algorithms
We compare the consensus MARL with two other algorithm frameworks: (i) a fully decentralized framework in which each agent just
solves their own reinforcement learning problem using the PPO algorithm [2], while completely ignoring multiagent interactions, and (ii)
the MADDPG approach [4].
Different from maximizing the system’s total long-term expected reward, the objective for each agent in the fully decentralized framework
and in MADDPG is to optimize their own long-term expected reward:
[∞
]
∑
𝑡
sup 𝐽𝑖 (𝜃𝑖 ) = E𝑠0 ∼𝜌𝜃
𝛾𝑖 𝑟𝑖,𝑡 |𝑠0 , 𝜋𝜃 , 𝑖 = 1, … , 𝐼 ,
(24)
𝜃𝑖

𝑖

𝑡=0

9

Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

C. Feng and A.L. Liu

Fig. 6. 30-episode moving average of episodic total reward.

Fig. 8. System voltage deviation. The total system voltage deviation (p.u.) in the 𝑛th
∑24𝑛−1 ∑
episode is calculated as 𝑡=24(𝑛−1) 𝑗∶𝐵𝑢𝑠 [max(0, 𝑣𝑗𝑡 − 𝑣)
̄ + max(0, 𝑣 − 𝑣𝑗𝑡 )].

Fig. 7. Hourly prices over the last three days.

Fig. 9. Transmission line capacity violation. The transmission line capacity violation
∑24𝑛−1
(kVA) in the 𝑛th episode is calculated as 𝑡=24(𝑛−1) max{0, 𝑆𝑡684,671 − 15}.

strong evidence favoring consensus MARL for better performance compared to MADDPG, which is somewhat surprising. Conventionally, one
might anticipate a centralized algorithm to outperform decentralized
algorithms. The explanation here can be traced to MADDPG’s decentralized execution. In MADDPG, each agent independently updates its
actions based on its own local state, despite the centralized nature of
the learning process. This approach of relying solely on local information appears to be less effective compared to the consensus update
mechanism.
Fig. 7 presents the average market prices of the P2P market in
chronological order over the last three days after thousands of training episodes. Notably, in the consensus-update framework, the market price tends to be higher during off-peak hours and lower during
peak hours. This suggests that agents using this algorithm have developed more sophisticated trading strategies compared to the other
two MARL frameworks. Specifically, the consensus-update algorithm
leads to strategies where agents buy more and sell less during off-peak
hours, and sell more and buy less during peak hours, unlike the purely
decentralized algorithm.
Fig. 8 shows the gradual reduction of the system voltage deviation
after training. Initially, it is observed that voltage violations are significantly high across all three frameworks.4 However, the consensus and
MADDPG framework demonstrate a rapid decline in these violations,

converging swiftly and effectively to zero at the fastest rate at the
later stage. The fully decentralized framework demonstrates a slower
rate of convergence, and is seemingly unable to fully eliminate voltage
violations.
Fig. 9 illustrates the effectiveness of the three MARL frameworks in
reducing distribution line capacity violations. However, the decrease
is not always consistent, especially at the beginning of each training
cycle for MADDPG. This initial fluctuation can be attributed to the
core objective of all MARL frameworks: optimizing the total long-term
reward through a balance between exploration (trying new actions)
and exploitation (focusing on actions with proven success). During
training, certain components of the total reward might temporarily
prioritize actions that lead to short-term capacity violations, causing
these fluctuations in the observed reduction.
6. Conclusion and future research
This study has developed a market and algorithmic framework
to enable consumers’ and prosumers’ participation in local P2P energy trading. Utilizing reinforcement learning algorithms, we have
automated bidding for agents while ensuring decentralized decisionmaking. The SDR-based market clearing addresses challenges with zeromarginal-cost resources and simplifies bidding. Additionally, our MARL
framework includes voltage and line capacity constraints of a physical
network, offering a possible approach for practical deployment.
However, this research represents just the initial phase in the practical application of a P2P energy trading market, with several challenges

4
We emphasize that the violations depicted in the figures are fictitious and
occur only in a preliminary stage, such as the hour-ahead market. If agents’
bids result in physical network constraint violations in the bidding phase
(not in the actual delivery phase), they are returned for resubmission until
feasible. In real-time operations, deviations from cleared bids are inevitable.
In such cases, a DSO, likely a utility company, can and should intervene to
maintain grid reliability and stability. Alternatively, grid-scale batteries with
mechanisms similar to Automatic Generation Control (AGC) could serve as

backup resources to maintain grid feasibility, which would fit nicely within
the decentralized MARL framework.
10

Applied Energy 383 (2025) 125283

C. Feng and A.L. Liu

ahead. Theoretically, the scalability of the MARL framework is crucial;
if the scalability of the consensus MARL algorithm is limited, a meanfield approach, as in [36], could be considered, where agents operate
with the belief that the market outcome is at a mean-field equilibrium.
Practically, while the current model uses discrete, synchronous trading
rounds, future work should investigate continuous and asynchronous
trading among agents.
Another critical aspect is cybersecurity. With increased automation,
the system becomes vulnerable to cyber attacks, such as malicious
users compromising smart inverters to inject false information into the
market. In this context, the work in [26] provides valuable insights.
Last but not least, it is essential to investigate how short-term P2P
market dynamics influence long-term consumer investment decisions,
particularly regarding the adoption of solar panels and energy storage
systems.

[8] Liu Y, Sun C, Paudel A, Gao Y, Li Y, Gooi HB, Zhu J. Fully decentralized
P2P energy trading in active distribution networks with voltage regulation. IEEE
Trans Smart Grid 2022;14(2):1466–81.
[9] Tarashandeh N, Karimi A. Peer-to-peer energy trading under distribution network constraints with preserving independent nature of agents. Appl Energy
2024;355:122240.
[10] Guo Z, Qin B, Guan Z, Wang Y, Zheng H, Wu Q. A high-efficiency and
incentive-compatible peer-to-peer energy trading mechanism. IEEE Trans Smart
Grid 2023;15(1):1075–88.
[11] Zhang Y, Dall’Anese E, Hong M. Online proximal-ADMM for time-varying
constrained convex optimization. IEEE Trans Signal Inf Process Netw
2021;7:144–55.
[12] Feng C, Liang B, Li Z, Liu W, Wen F. Peer-to-peer energy trading under
network constraints based on generalized fast dual ascent. IEEE Trans Smart
Grid 2022;14(2):1441–53.
[13] Tushar W, Saha TK, Yuen C, Smith D, Poor HV. Peer-to-peer trading in electricity
networks: An overview. IEEE Trans Smart Grid 2020;11(4):3185–200.
[14] Tushar W, Yuen C, Saha TK, Morstyn T, Chapman AC, Alam MJE, Hanif S,
Poor HV. Peer-to-peer energy systems for connected communities: A review of
recent advances and emerging challenges. Appl Energy 2021;282:116131.
[15] Tushar W, Yuen C, Mohsenian-Rad H, Saha T, Poor HV, Wood KL. Transforming
energy networks via peer-to-peer energy trading: The potential of game-theoretic
approaches. IEEE Signal Process Mag 2018;35(4):90–111.
[16] Soto EA, Bosman LB, Wollega E, Leon-Salas WD. Peer-to-peer energy trading: A
review of the literature. Appl Energy 2021;283:116268.
[17] Bukar AL, Hamza MF, Ayub S, Abobaker AK, Modu B, Mohseni S, Brent AC,
Ogbonnaya C, Mustapha K, Idakwo HO. Peer-to-peer electricity trading: A
systematic review on current developments and perspectives. Renew Energy
Focus 2023;44:317–33.
[18] Guerrero J, Chapman AC, Verbič G. Decentralized P2P energy trading under network constraints in a low-voltage network. IEEE Trans Smart Grid
2018;10(5):5163–73.
[19] Biagioni D, Zhang X, Wald D, Vaidhynathan D, Chintala R, King J, Zamzam AS.
PowerGridworld: A framework for multi-agent reinforcement learning in power
systems. 2021, arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.05969.
[20] Wang S, Duan J, Shi D, Xu C, Li H, Diao R, Wang Z. A data-driven multi-agent
autonomous voltage control framework using deep reinforcement learning. IEEE
Trans Power Syst 2020;35(6):4644–54.
[21] Qiu D, Wang J, Wang J, Strbac G. Multi-agent reinforcement learning for
automated peer-to-peer energy trading in double-side auction market. In: IJCAI.
2021, p. 2913–20.
[22] Zhang K, Yang Z, Liu H, Zhang T, Basar T. Fully decentralized multi-agent
reinforcement learning with networked agents. In: International conference on
machine learning. PMLR; 2018, p. 5872–81.
[23] Qu G, Wierman A, Li N. Scalable reinforcement learning for multiagent
networked systems. Oper Res 2022;70(6):3601–28.
[24] Zhao Z, Feng C, Liu AL. Comparisons of auction designs through multiagent learning in peer-to-peer energy trading. IEEE Trans Smart Grid
2022;14(1):593–605.
[25] Kim JH, Giraldo JS, Preckel PV, Liu AL, Gotham D. Welfare impact of virtual
trading on wholesale electricity markets. Energy J 2024. in press.
[26] Figura M, Kosaraju KC, Gupta V. Adversarial attacks in consensus-based multiagent reinforcement learning. In: 2021 American control conference. ACC, IEEE;
2021, p. 3050–5.
[27] Huang P, Scheller-Wolf A, Sycara K. Design of a multi–unit double auction
e–market. Comput Intell 2002;18(4):596–617.
[28] Cui B, Sun XA. Solvability of power flow equations through existence and
uniqueness of complex fixed point. 2019, arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.08855.
[29] Chen Y, Liu AL, Tanaka M, Takashima R. Optimal retail tariff design with
prosumers: Pursuing equity at the expenses of economic efficiencies? IEEE Trans
Energy Mark Policy Regul 2023;1(3):198–210.
[30] Roberts GO, Rosenthal JS. General state space Markov chains and MCMC
algorithms. Probab Surv 2004;1:20–71.
[31] Ye L, Figura M, Lin Y, Pal M, Das P, Liu J, Gupta V. Resilient multi-agent
reinforcement learning with function approximation. IEEE Trans Autom Control
2024;69(12):8497–512.
[32] Zhu Z, Lin K, Jain AK, Zhou J. Transfer learning in deep reinforcement learning:
A survey. IEEE Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell 2023;45(11):13344–62.
[33] IEEE Distribution System Analysis Subcommittee. IEEE 13 Node Test Feeder,
https://cmte.ieee.org/pes-testfeeders/resources/.
[34] Electric Power Research Institute. OpenDSS, https://www.epri.com/pages/sa/
opendss.
[35] The Ray Team. Models, Preprocessors, and Action Distributions Ray 2.8.1, https:
//docs.ray.io/en/latest/rllib/rllib-models.html#default-model-config-settings.
[36] Guo X, Hu A, Xu R, Zhang J. Learning mean-field games. Adv Neural Inf Process
Syst 2019;32.

CRediT authorship contribution statement
Chen Feng: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft,
Visualization. Andrew L. Liu: Writing – review & editing, Writing –
original draft.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing interests:
Andrew Lu Liu reports financial support was provided by US Department of Energy. Andrew Lu Liu reports financial support was provided
by National Science Foundation. If there are other authors, they declare
that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported
in this paper.
Acknowledgments
We acknowledge the support of the U.S. Department of Energy,
Office of Electricity under Award Number DE-OE0000921, and the
National Science Foundation, USA under Grant No. ECCS-2129631.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.

References
[1] Zhang K, Yang Z, Basar T. Networked multi-agent reinforcement learning in
continuous spaces. In: 2018 IEEE conference on decision and control. CDC, IEEE;
2018, p. 2771–6.
[2] Feng C, Lu AL, Chen Y. Decentralized voltage control with peer-to-peer energy trading in a distribution network. In: Proceedings of the 56th Hawaii
international conference on system sciences. 2023, p. 2600–9.
[3] Schulman J, Wolski F, Dhariwal P, Radford A, Klimov O. Proximal policy
optimization algorithms. 2017, arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347.
[4] Lowe R, Wu YI, Tamar A, Harb J, Abbeel P, Mordatch I. Multi-agent actor-critic
for mixed cooperative-competitive environments. Adv Neural Inf Process Syst
2017;30.
[5] Liu N, Yu X, Wang C, Li C, Ma L, Lei J. Energy-sharing model with price-based
demand response for microgrids of peer-to-peer prosumers. IEEE Trans Power
Syst 2017;32(5):3569–83.
[6] Morstyn T, McCulloch MD. Multiclass energy management for peer-to-peer
energy trading driven by prosumer preferences. IEEE Trans Power Syst
2018;34(5):4005–14.
[7] Ullah MH, Park J-D. Peer-to-peer energy trading in transactive markets considering physical network constraints. IEEE Trans Smart Grid
2021;12(4):3390–403.

11

