Energy 291 (2024) 130211

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Energy
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/energy

Comparative analysis of bidding strategies for auction-based local energy
markets
Joel David Schölzel ∗, Sarah Henn, Milena Tings, Rita Streblow, Dirk Müller
RWTH Aachen University, E.ON Energy Research Center, Institute for Energy Efficient Buildings and Indoor Climate, Mathieustrasse 10, 52074 Aachen, Germany

ARTICLE

INFO

Keywords:
Community-based energy trading
Auction-based local energy market
Bidding strategies
Prosumer
Distributed energy resources

ABSTRACT
In view of the ongoing integration of distributed energy resources (DERs) and energy storage into the energy
system, conventional consumers are transitioning into prosumers and flexumers. Local energy markets (LEMs)
enables these end users to trade electricity directly with each other in order to obtain lower energy prices
and to increase the local self-consumption. Since bidding strategies have a decisive impact on efficient
trading in auction-based LEMs, the comparison and consistent evaluation of bidding strategies is an important
research area. As novelty we propose an uniform evaluation methodology keeping all market features equal
except the used bidding strategy. For the first time we evaluate a device-oriented (DO) strategy including an
incentive price signal with a zero-intelligence (ZI) strategy, a learning-intelligence (LI) strategy employing the
modified Roth–Erev learning algorithm. As evaluation we analyze the resulting market trading with various key
performance indicators (KPIs), which consider both cost savings and local energy supply. Our findings reveal
that the chosen bidding strategy has a decisive impact on cost savings and the distribution of gains between
the buyer and seller side. In a photovoltaic (PV) and combined heat and power (CHP) scenario with different
technology penetrations, the end users’ gains attain the highest values for the DO bidding strategy with 7909
e and 16454 e. Also the average market clearing prices are for the DO bidding strategy the highest with
0.269 e/kWh for the and 0.3032 e/kWh, which implies that the seller side predominantly obtains the gains.

1. Introduction
1.1. Promoting the integration of distributed energy resources
Due to the energy transition, devices such as PV, CHP systems,
heat pumps (HP), thermal energy storage (TES) and battery storage
(BAT), as well as electric cars, are increasingly installed in buildings
and neighborhoods. Consequently, the decentralization of energy supply is increasing, which requires a coordinated integration of locally
generated heat and electricity [1]. This transformation converts the role
of the end user away from pure consumer to prosumer or flexumer.
Prosumers are private end users who independently generate electrical
energy through their own devices. In addition to self-consumption,
prosumers can also feed the generated electricity into the electricity
grid and receive a fixed feed-in tariff. Flexumers deliver flexibility to
the distribution grid. This flexibility can be provided on the generation
and demand sides, e.g. through flexible operation of consumer devices
such as HPs, or through the utilization of energy storages. By providing
flexibility to the grid and feeding in self-produced electricity, the role
of the end users changes from passive energy consumers to active
participants in the energy system [2].

Nevertheless, end users currently have to accept fixed tariffs that
are set in contracts. LEMs allow the end user to actively participate
in the energy market by trading their energy with flexible prices.
The energy trading can consist of the provision of surplus electricity
generation or flexible demand. In LEMs, pricing is determined by the
market design and the market participants’ bids. Thus the end users
can achieve financial savings and gains by marketing their flexible
capacity and self-generated electricity [3]. Consequently, profitable
market trading motivates the further integration of DERs by creating
financial incentives, which can ultimately also support the acceleration
of the energy transition [4]. Besides these financial benefits, the need
for further grid expansion, as well as the risk of distribution grid
bottlenecks, get reduced by using the generated energy directly in the
local neighborhood [5]. One possible trading form on a LEM is auctionbased market trading [6]. In an auction-based market, an allocation
process is executed for the acquisition of a commodity, in which certain
participants are chosen for trading based on their bids. Consequently,
trading volume and price are determined within a competition between
the participants [7].

∗ Corresponding author.

E-mail address: joel.schoelzel@eonerc.rwth-aachen.de (J.D. Schölzel).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2023.130211
Received 11 July 2023; Received in revised form 21 November 2023; Accepted 29 December 2023
Available online 4 January 2024
0360-5442/© 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

c
CH
ch
d
dch
dom
e
el
fl
imp
inj
loss
max
min
OH
PH
s
signal
sold
total
traded

Nomenclature
Abbreviations
BAT
BEMS
BES
BOI
CHP
COP
D
DCF
DER
DHW
DO
ER
HP
KPI
LEM
LI
PV
S
SCF
SH
SOC
TES
ZI

Battery storage
Building energy management system
Building energy system
Boiler
Combined heat and power
Coefficient of performance
Consumer
Demand-cover-factor
Distributed energy resources
Domestic hot water
Device-oriented
Electric rod
Heat pump
Key performance indicator
Local energy market
Learning-intelligence
Photovoltaic
Supplier
Supply-cover-factor
Space heating
State of charge
Thermal energy storage
Zero-intelligence

Energy Directive (RED II) [8] describes the right of prosuming within
Renewable Energy Communities (REC). In addition to the right to generate renewable energies, store and sell surplus electricity production,
this refers in particular to the right to share renewable energy generated
within a REC. Sharing of renewable energies can be performed for
example via peer-to-peer trading or rather on LEMs [9]. Members of
RECs can be households, public authorities including municipalities,
and small and medium-sized enterprises [8]. Due to the definition
of RECs, these members must be geographically close to each other.
Within the communities energy transactions are exempt from network
charges [10]. Furthermore, no levies or additional charges must be
payed which cannot be justified by incurred costs [8]. In recent years,
new business models have been developed within energy communities
based on these directives. [10] identifies eight potential energy community business model archetypes. One of these business model archetypes
for energy communities are LEMs. Within this context, the analysis and
evaluation of bidding strategies in auction-based local energy markets
are pivotal for various reasons, including price settlement and market
efficiency [6]. The selection of an effective bidding strategy is of
paramount importance achieving cost savings for end users but and
ensuring the equitable distribution of these savings among them [11].
The paper is structured as follows: Section 1.2 provides a literature
overview of LEM designs and several bidding strategies. In Section 1.3
we highlight the paper’s goal and analyze the LEM model’s features. In
Section 2 we discuss the implemented market design, the operational
optimization method of the building energy systems (BESs), and the
investigated bidding strategies and scenarios. The scenarios are then
evaluated and discussed in Section 3. We conclude our work in Section 4 with a summary of the main conclusions and recommendations
for further research.

Greek symbols
𝛼
𝛽
𝜂

Dimensionless power
Dimensionless energy
Efficiency

Symbols
b
C
g
K
L
m
m
n
P
p
Q
q
R
T
t
w
X
F

Bid
Costs
Propensity
Set of prices
Electrical load within neighborhood
Index of consumer
Index of market agents
Index of supplier
Electrical power
Price
Thermal energy
Quantity
Market outcome
Temperature
Time
Probability of a bid price
Average gain
Electrical feed-in within neighborhood

Subscripts
air
bought

Carnot
Control horizon
Charging
Demand
Discharging
Domestic
Equilibrium
Electrical
Flow temperature
Imported
Injected
Energy loss
Maximum
Minimum
Overlap horizon
Prediction horizon
Supply
Signal
Sold electricity
Total electricity
Traded electricity

1.2. Literature overview
Outdoor temperature
Bought electricity

In general, LEM within neighborhoods can be categorized according
to their level of centralization. There are three possible market designs:
centralized, distributed and decentralized [12,13].
In a centralized market, a central controller manages energy sharing
within the neighborhood. It directly communicates with each BES,
overseeing end-user device operations. Following the calculation and

In the future, the legal framework for implementing LEM may improve significantly. As part of the Clean Energy Package 2019, Energy
Communities were defined by the European Union. The Renewable
2

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

strategy is considered as a reference, respectively lower bound, for
other bidding strategies. Also Lin et al. [27] investigated different
bidding strategies in a LEM with double-sided auction. Again the ZI
bidding strategy is used as reference and compared with three gametheoretical approaches. In both studies, the results show that ZI bidding
strategy achieves the lowest market efficiency in terms of energy costs
and energy exchange.
In [5] a modified Roth–Erev reinforcement learning algorithm is
implemented in the context of a double-sided, closed-book auction with
uniform pricing as the market clearing mechanism. The basic idea
of the modified Roth–Erev reinforcement learning algorithm is that
actions with a positive outcome get strengthened, whereas actions with
a negative outcome should be dismissed. The reinforcement learning is
combined with a demand response algorithm which causes load shifting
on an individual level. With the Roth–Erev learning algorithm, individual households are able to achieve promising economic benefits. Higher
levels of demand response improve the market outcome and increase
the self-sufficiency of the households. This learning-intelligence (LI)
bidding strategy is also applied in [11,28] with promising results in
energy trading.
In [29] a continuous double-sided auction is applied with a payas-bid pricing scheme. In this case reinforcement learning is used for
the bidding strategy. In addition to the market outcome, the associated states of solar irradiation and PV generation are also considered
in the learning process. In summary, the study shows that market
trading is beneficial for both prosumers and consumers in terms of selfconsumption and savings. However, the LI bidding strategy achieves
only slightly better results than the zero-intelligent strategy.
El-Baz et al. [22] describe a double-sided auction with fast clearing mechanism and bidding rules in order to reduce the computational power and waiting times during data communication. A deviceoriented (DO) bidding strategy is introduced for several devices like
electric vehicles, CHPs and CHP taking into account the electrical
power, the heat generation and the state of charge (SoC) of energy
storages. Summarizing, the results show that the offered market model
including the device-oriented bidding strategies almost doubles selfconsumption and all market participants benefit financially from energy trading.
Zhou et al. [17] implemented a peer-to-peer energy market with
three different internal price signals. The price signal is calculated
by a coordinator agent based on the submitted bids and sent to the
prosumer agents. With the price signal the prosumer agents adjust the
price and energy quantity of their bids. In order to achieve convergence
in trading, this process is repeated until the bids stay equal or a fixed
number of iterations has been reached. The used mechanisms to calculate the price signal were supply–demand-ratio, mid-market rate and
bill sharing mechanisms which mainly differ in terms of their iterative
pricing. The results show that the iterative use of each price signal
leads to a better overall performance compared to the conventional case
where prosumers have fixed prices with the retailer.

execution of energy sharing, the controller allocates neighborhood
costs and revenue among end users based on predefined rules of
cost distribution [14]. In a decentralized market, peers communicate
directly within a connected neighborhood without a central controller.
The building energy management system (BEMS) exercises full control
over end-user devices. Costs arise from bilateral market trading among
end users [12,13]. In [15], for example, a multi-agent system (MAS)
employs a coalition mechanism for direct energy trading among end
users, ensuring autonomous energy management for individual prosumers. In a distributed market, a coordinator facilitates energy trading
influencing the operation of end users’ devices solely through price
signals. Limited information, including tradeable energy quantities and
prices, is shared with the coordinator by end users. Using various
features and pricing schemes, the coordinator regulates the final energy trading [12,16]. Despite a hierarchical information exchange, all
building energy management systems (BEMSs) operate autonomously
in decision-making [17].
Within these different categories of markets and levels of centralization auctions can be divided into different terminologies. These
include whether the auction is open-cry or sealed-bid and whether it is
one-sided or two-sided [18]. In an open-cry auction, each participant
has all the information about the other bids, whereas in a sealedbid auction, only the auctioneer has the information about the bids.
In [19], market agents negotiate directly with each other and therefore
each market agent has information on all other bids on the market. In
contrast, in [20] only the auctioneer has access to all generated bids.
The auctioneer determines the equilibrium price with the information
of these bids. In one-sided auctions, either only the buyers or only the
sellers place their bid on the market [21]. In contrast, in two-sided
auctions, buyers and sellers compete at the same time with their bids
to trade a commodity [22].
Trading transactions occur continuously or are time-discrete. In
continuous trading, market clearing is performed immediately as soon
as two matching bids are found. In time-discrete markets, bids are
submitted until a fixed closing time and the market is cleared at
defined time intervals [23].The market clearing can be iterative or oneshot. One-shot means that the market clearing is executed once and
the not traded bids are rejected. In iterative procedures, the bids are
traded in several rounds and adjusted if they were not traded [24].
Various auction procedures can be selected to allocate energy quantities
and to set pricing mechanisms for market clearing. The main types
are Uniform Pricing Auction (UPA), Pay-as-Bid Auction (PABA), and
Vickrey Auction. For two-sided auctions, UPA and PABA are commonly
used. In UPA, winners pay the same market clearing price (MCP),
promoting marginal costs and social welfare maximization [25].
In addition to the market clearing rules, the outcome of each auction
is also determined by the bidding strategies. Bidding strategies are
used to determine the respective bids of the participants. For financially successful participation in an auction-based market, submitting
competitive bids is essential. However, the market participants have
neither knowledge nor time to engage in trading activities themselves.
Therefore, the operation of an automated bidding process is necessary.
Hence, there is a need to identify reliable bidding strategies that ensure
the creation of financial incentives for the market participants while
respecting the available time and computational power [12].
The trading benefit of auction-based LEMs depends highly on the
bidding behavior of the participants. Therefore various bidding strategies can be applied and the range of bidding strategies with different
functional mechanisms is wide. For example, some strategies take into
account the behavior of other market participants, while others try
to draw conclusions for future price developments from past market
rounds. Other strategies only consider the technical parameters of the
devices or simply randomly choose the bid pricing [26].
Mengelkamp et al. [11] evaluated and compared two different
market designs as well as two bidding strategies. One bidding strategy
is the zero-intelligence (ZI) which selects random bid prices. The ZI

1.3. Contribution
While most papers concentrate on comparing LI bidding strategies
with ZI bidding strategies, to the author’s best knowledge, there is no
evaluation and comparison of DO bidding strategies, which consider
the use of operational flexibilities in response to a price signal. To fill
this research gap, we provide an auction-based local energy market
with different, modular selectable bidding strategies and the implementation of an evaluation methodology with economic and energetic
KPIs. We implement a distributed local energy market characterized by
the decentralized operation of the BES. This decentralization empowers
an autonomous decision-making process for device operation. In the
auction process, an auctioneer collects all bids, maintaining sole access
to energy quantities and prices. A two-sided auction mechanism with
uniform pricing for market clearing is used. Both the collection of
3

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

bids and the execution of trading transactions occur in a time-discrete
manner. The market clearing is executed as a one-shot process, whereby
unsuccessful bids are rejected. In this manner, all market characteristics
remain constant except the modular selectable bidding strategies. This
establishes the groundwork for a novel evaluation methodology that
exclusively assesses the impact of bidding strategies on the market
outcome, isolating this factor from other market variables.
We summarize the main contributions of this study regarding the
evaluation of bidding strategies with the following points:
• A detailed comparison and evaluation of a DO bidding strategy
with ZI and LI bidding strategies to identify efficient bidding
strategies for LEMs. The evaluation is based on several KPIs
such as the accumulated gain, the market clearing prices, the
total costs, the traded bids and the overlap between demand and
generation within the neighborhood.
• Implementation of a price signal which ensures the activation
of flexibilities and thus facilitates local energy balancing. In this
way, the market coordinator informs the participants of an expected future price trend that BEMS use to manage their flexible
devices.
• An adjustment of the device operation depending on the market outcome of each trading round. Rejected bids result in the
usage of available storage capacities and the non-traded energy
quantities determine the operational adjustment.

Fig. 1. Structure of the implemented LEM and exchange of information.

2.2. Operational optimization method
2.2.1. Workflow and operational adjustment within rolling horizon approach
To solve the optimization problems a rolling horizon method is implemented. The rolling horizon method divides the problem temporally
into several subproblems. The subproblems have a prediction horizon
with 𝑛PH time steps. Within 𝑛PH all data are given with the assumption
of perfect foresight.
The overall workflow of the market process is presented in Fig. 2.
The algorithm starts by loading the annual time series of simulated
demands and forecasted weather data as well as the parameters of
the devices. Afterward, the objects of the BES for the decentralized
operation optimizations and the market agents for the bidding are created. Due to the applied rolling horizon, the total number of necessary
optimizations and market rounds is determined by the number of time
steps within the scheduling horizon. Each market process starts with the
operational optimizations, with the length of the prediction horizon.
The operational data of 𝑛CH like the initial SoC and powers serve as
input data for the bidding strategies. Regardless of the selected bidding
strategy, the bid quantity results directly from the operational optimization. Solely the determination of the corresponding bid price varies
between the different strategies explained in 2.3. After computing the
bids, they are collected on the LEM. The market is cleared according
to the UPA explained in Section 2.1. End users whose bids have been
rejected have to adjust the previously optimized operation and cover
their demands through the storage systems. In the case that market
trading does not satisfy a bid with not-shiftable demand or supply, the
superordinate grid level serves as a backup. The corrected SoCs serve
as initial values for the next prediction horizon. Finally, the price signal
for the next 𝑛CH is calculated according to Eq. (24).

2. Methodology
In Section 2.1 an overview of the underlying market model and its
characteristics is given. Afterward, the underlying optimization method
of the BES and the three investigated bidding strategies are introduced
in Sections 2.2 and 2.3. Finally, we present the investigated scenarios
in 2.5 and KPIs used for the comparative analysis in 2.4.
2.1. Market design
In this work, a LEM with a hierarchical structure is investigated.
Fig. 1 shows the structure of the LEM. It consists of two levels, the
market platform and the operating system. Consequently, each end user
has an autonomous market agent. The market agent uses the optimized
operation schedule to create bids depending on the applied bidding
strategy. The operating schedule of a household is determined by a
BEMS which has control over the entire devices.
Each market agent submits its bid on the market where trading
quantity and trading price are determined according to the UPA. After
the market clearing, the auctioneer sends a feedback to the participants.
This feedback includes the traded amount of electricity and the corresponding price. Depending on the bidding strategy, also a price signal
can be sent.
The auction is designed in a double-sided manner. Thus, both buyers
and sellers submit their bids simultaneously on the market. A market
agent has only access to its own bid. Consequently, buyers and sellers
submit sealed bids. Moreover, the auction is time discrete and only one
market clearing is performed per time period.
In this work, we apply for market clearing the UPA. This algorithm
identifies a market equilibrium, which determines the cleared quantity
𝑞e and the MCP 𝑝MCP . The intersection of the supply and demand step
functions defines this equilibrium. To obtain these step functions, the
buying bids 𝑏𝑑,𝑚 = (𝑝𝑑,𝑚 , 𝑞𝑑,𝑚 ) of the consumers 𝐷 = (1, 2, 3..., 𝑚) and
the selling bids 𝑏𝑠,𝑛 = (𝑝𝑠,𝑛 , 𝑞𝑠,𝑛 ) of the supplier 𝑆 = (1, 2, 3..., 𝑛) get
arranged according to the offered prices in the form of a descending
and an ascending curve. The bids whose energy quantities are within
the cleared quantity get traded. The feedback to the consumers and
supplier includes the respective trading volume and the trading price
𝑝MCP .

2.2.2. Building energy systems
Each BEMS optimizes its consumption or feed-in profile for defined
observation periods. The following data are required for the calculation
of the mixed-integer linear program (MILP).
• Domestic electricity demand 𝑃dom
• Domestic hot water 𝑄̇ DHW and space heating demand 𝑄̇ SH
• Electrical generation of the PV 𝑃PV
• Outdoor temperature 𝑇air
• Energy prices or price signal 𝑝̂signal
4

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

Fig. 2. Workflow of the market process.

The objective function of each BEMS is the minimization of the
operational costs incurred from the purchasing electricity and gas
minus the revenues for feed-in (Eq. (1)).
∑
𝑚𝑖𝑛 𝐶BES = 𝛥𝑡 ⋅
(𝑝gas ⋅ 𝑃gas,t + 𝑝̂signal,t ⋅ 𝑃imp,t − 𝑝̂signal,t ⋅ 𝑃inj,t )
(1)

𝑄̇ ER,min ≤ 𝑄̇ ER,t ≤ 𝑄̇ ER,max

(5)

𝑄̇ BOI,min ≤ 𝑄̇ BOI,t ≤ 𝑄̇ BOI,max

(6)

𝑡∈𝑛PH

The electrical power of the HP is calculated according to Eq. (7).

As explained in detail in Section 2.3.3, the price signal 𝑝̂signal takes
into account the participants’ future bid prices and bid quantities.
Accordingly, the implementation of the price signal in the objective
function is only useful if the bid prices are functions of the predictive
operating mode and SoCs of the BES devices. Note that 𝑝̂signal does not
correspond to the final price, which only occurs after market trading.
𝑃imp,t and 𝑃inj,t represent the submitted electricity quantity-bids to be
bought or sold.
Because of the random and learning selection of bid prices in the ZI
and LI bidding strategies, the price signal is avoided in the objective
function (Eq. (2)) of the operational optimization when using these
bidding strategies.
∑
𝑚𝑖𝑛 𝐶BES = 𝛥𝑡 ⋅
(𝑝gas ⋅ 𝑃gas,t + 𝑝max ⋅ 𝑃imp,t − 𝑝min ⋅ 𝑃inj,t )
(2)

𝑃HP,t =

𝑄̇ HP,t

(7)

𝐶𝑂𝑃t

The coefficient of performance is calculated for each time step as a
function of the flow temperature and the outdoor temperature as seen
in (8).
𝐶𝑂𝑃t = 𝜂c ⋅

𝑇f l
𝑇f l − 𝑇air,t

(8)

For hygienic reasons, the domestic hot water must be heated from
𝐷𝐻𝑊 = 60◦ C. HPs maximally provide heat at
𝑇in𝐷𝐻𝑊 = 10◦ C to 𝑇out
𝐷𝐻𝑊
◦
𝑇min
= 35 C. The remaining heat demand to raise the temperature
up to 60 degrees is provided by the EH. In Eq. (9), the heat provided
by the ER is calculated.

𝑡∈𝑛PH

𝐷𝐻𝑊 − 𝑇 𝐷𝐻𝑊
𝑇out
min

In the following, all characteristics of the BES are introduced. The
thermal output of the HP, the CHP, the boiler (BOI) and the electric rod
(ER) are always between the following limits according to Eqs. (3)–(6).

𝑄̇ ER,t =

𝑄̇ HP,min ≤ 𝑄̇ HP,t ≤ 𝑄̇ HP,max

(3)

𝑄̇ ER,t = 𝑃ER,t ⋅ 𝜂ER,th

𝑄̇ CHP,min ≤ 𝑄̇ CHP,t ≤ 𝑄̇ CHP,max

(4)

The charging and discharging of the TES are represented with
Eqs. (11) and (12).

𝐷𝐻𝑊 − 𝑇 𝐷𝐻𝑊
𝑇out
in

⋅ 𝑄̇ DHW,t

(9)

The current required by the heating rod results from the efficiency
of the component and is calculated in Eq. (10).

5

(10)

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

𝑄̇ ch,t = 𝑄̇ CHP,t + 𝑄̇ BOI,t + 𝑄̇ ER,t + 𝑄̇ HP,t

(11)

𝑄̇ dch,t = 𝑄̇ SH,t + 𝑄̇ DHW,t

(12)

each LI agent 𝑖 now holds a propensity 𝑔𝑖,𝑝 (𝑡) for each of the possible
prices 𝑝 of 𝐾. Every market round, the agent calculates a probability
distribution from the set of propensities using (17).
𝑔𝑖,𝑝,𝑡
𝑤𝑖,𝑝,𝑡 = ∑𝐾
(17)
𝑝 𝑔𝑖,𝑝,𝑡

This results in the energy balance Eq. (13) for the TES.

1

𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,t+1 = 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,t ⋅ 𝜂TES,loss + 𝑑𝑡 ⋅ (𝑄̇ ch,t ⋅ 𝜂TES,ch −

𝑄̇ dch,t
𝜂TES,dch

)

The probability 𝑤𝑖,𝑝 (𝑡) for a market agent 𝑖 to bid a certain price 𝑝
in a market round 𝑡 is equal to the propensity of this price divided by
the sum of the propensities for all possible prices 𝐾. The bid price 𝑝
is then chosen in accordance with the probability distribution. In the
first market round, the propensity for each possible price is equal. After
each market round, the agents evaluate the respective market outcome
and update the propensities according to (18).
{
𝑅𝑡 ⋅ (1 − 𝑒𝑥𝑝) + 𝑔𝑖,𝑝,𝑡 ⋅ (1 − 𝑟𝑒𝑐) , if 𝑝𝑡 = 𝑝𝑡−1
(18)
𝑔𝑖,𝑝,𝑡+1 =
𝑒𝑥𝑝
𝑔𝑖,𝑝,𝑡 ⋅ |𝐾|−1
+ 𝑔𝑖,𝑝,𝑡 ⋅ (1 − 𝑟𝑒𝑐) , else

(13)

The corresponding energy balance equation for the BAT is shown in
(14).
𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,t+1 = 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,t ⋅ 𝜂BAT,loss + 𝑑𝑡 ⋅ (𝑃BAT,ch,t ⋅ 𝜂BAT,ch −

𝑃BAT,dch,t
𝜂BAT,dch

) (14)

The electricity balance of the BES is given by Eq. (15).
𝑃imp,t +𝑃PV,t +𝑃CHP,t +𝑃BAT,dch,t = 𝑃inj,t +𝑃HP,t +𝑃ER,t +𝑃dom,t +𝑃BAT,ch,t (15)

The propensity 𝑔𝑖,𝑝,𝑡+1 of a market agent 𝑖 for a possible price 𝑝 in
the next market round 𝑡 + 1 depends on the propensity for this price
in the last market round 𝑔𝑖,𝑝,𝑡 . The influence of the past propensities is
limited by the recency parameter 𝑟𝑒𝑐. The experimentation principle is
implemented through the parameter 𝑒𝑥𝑝 which ensures that the agent
does not fixate on one price too quickly without testing other options.
Nicholaisen et al. [31] modified the Roth–Erev algorithm to include
updating the propensities in response to a market round where the bid
of the respective participant is not traded at all, as this also counts as
an unfavorable outcome. The market outcome of the previous market
round is represented by 𝑅𝑡 . The Eqs. (19) and (20) show the calculation
of 𝑅𝑡 for the selling and buying participants respectively. Prosumers
that need to buy energy in one market round and sell surplus generation
in another have two separate sets of propensities.

2.3. Investigated bidding strategies
In this section, the three investigated bidding strategies are described. A ZI bidding strategy is presented in 2.3.1. It serves as a lower
benchmark for the DO and the LI bidding strategies explained in 2.3.2
and 2.3.3. In all three cases, the bids contain price and trading quantity.
2.3.1. Zero-intelligence bidding strategy
With the ZI bidding strategy, each market agent randomly chooses
one price 𝑝 of the set of possible prices 𝐾 for the bid. In consequence,
the same bidding strategy is applied by all agents, regardless of the
devices and whether the market agent sets supply or demand bids. The
possible discrete prices are within the set 𝐾 from 𝑝min to 𝑝max to with
a step size 𝑠.
𝐾 = [𝑝𝑚𝑖𝑛 , 𝑝𝑚𝑖𝑛 + 𝑠, … , 𝑝𝑚𝑎𝑥 − 𝑠, 𝑝𝑚𝑎𝑥 ]

𝑅d,t = 𝑞bought,t ⋅ (𝑝max − 𝑝MCP,t )

(16)

(19)

For each buying participant 𝑅d,t represents the costs saved through
market trading in the corresponding market round. Here, 𝑞bought,t represents the quantity traded by the participant on the LEM and 𝑝MCP,t
is the corresponding MCP. When the bid was not successful, then
𝑞bought = 0. The evaluation for selling participants is performed according to Eq. (20).

In literature, this strategy often represents a lower benchmark for
bidding strategies [5,30].
2.3.2. Learning-intelligence bidding strategy
Through the progress in the field of machine learning in recent
years, new possibilities for the development of bidding strategies
emerged. As shown in Section 1.2, several reinforcement learning algorithms have been developed. By learning from historical data, future
chances of successful market trading increase. The modified Roth–Erev
learning intelligence algorithm has proven successful in a variety of
studies on LEMs and is therefore analyzed in this work [11,28,31,32].
The Roth–Erev algorithm is a reinforcement learning model, in
which the basic idea describes that actions leading to favorable results
should be chosen more often in future decisions. The propensity for
this action is reinforced through the reward in the form of a positive
outcome. However, actions that led to unprofitable results should
not be repeated and the propensity for such actions decreases. This
principle is known in psychology as the law of effect. An additional
principle is the power law of practice which states that learning curves
are initially steep while they flatten over time. Roth and Erev [33]
developed an algorithm combining both principles and also addressing
two further learning principles. There is a risk that the agent falls into
a pattern too quickly without exploring other options. Considering this
experimentation effect ensures that potentially better options are not
overlooked prematurely. Moreover, the recency effect states that recent
experiences usually play a more significant role in the current decision
than experiences that lie further in the past.
As with the ZI algorithm, the possible discrete prices are within the
set 𝐾 from 𝑝min to 𝑝max with a step width of 1 ct/kWh. Furthermore,

𝑅s,t = 𝑞sold,t ⋅ (𝑝MCP,t − 𝑝min )

(20)

𝑅s,t is the total profit generated with 𝑞sold,t representing the quantity
sold on the LEM.
2.3.3. Device-oriented bidding strategy
In the DO strategy, the market agents determine the bid price
through predefined rules that focus on the devices of the respective
participant. Hence, the bid price depends on the devices’ operation and
technical limitations.
The technical limitations cause shiftable and non-shiftable loads
to be distinguished. Loads are shiftable if electrical consumption and
injection can be held back or brought forward to cover demand. This
is called operational flexibility, which can be quantified in terms of
time, power and energy [34]. The metrics can be calculated in both
the positive and the negative direction, which describes the possibility
of increasing or decreasing the power and charging or discharging the
storage. In this work, the metrics power and state-of-charge are used
for the DO bidding strategies.
In order to ensure the operation of non-flexible devices, the corresponding bid price of non-shiftable consumption is always set to 𝑝max
and the corresponding bid price of non-shiftable injection to 𝑝min . The
price for the shiftable loads is always set between 𝑝min and 𝑝max . In this
way, financial benefits can be promised to the end user if flexibilities
are used.
6

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

𝑝d,HP,t
⎧𝑝max ,
⎪
𝑄̇ d,t −𝑄̇ HP,t
,
⎪𝑝min + (𝑝max − 𝑝min ) ⋅ 𝑄̇ −𝑄̇
d,t
HP,min
⎪
⎪
=⎨
𝑄̇ HP,t −𝑄̇ d,t
⎪𝑝min + (𝑝max − 𝑝min ) ⋅ 𝑄̇ HP,max −𝑄̇ d,t ,
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩𝑝min ,

Price Signal
When using the device-oriented bidding strategies, a price signal
is needed, which serves as an input parameter for the operational
optimization of the BES (see Eq. (1)). It indicates the expected market
clearing price in the future market rounds. Thus, load shifting and
usage of storage systems is encouraged because the BEMS can gain
financial advantages by shifting loads in times of low prices.
The rolling horizon method is used for operational optimization,
which includes the optimization of the prediction horizon (see Section 2.2.1). As a result, the signal is calculated for the length of the
prediction horizon and updated after each market round by making a
new calculation for the next horizon.

if 𝑆𝑂𝐶TES,t ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,min
if 𝑄̇ d,t > 𝑄̇ HP,t
and 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,min ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,t ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,max
if 𝑄̇ d,t < 𝑄̇ HP,t
and 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,min ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,t ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,max
if 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,t > 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,max

(21)
Eq. (21) shows the price determination for the electricity consumption of HPs. It depends on the heat generation and the SoC of the
TES. If the SoC falls below 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,min , the maximum price 𝑝max is
offered regardless of heat generation and consumption. 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,min is
selected on the necessity that the heat demand has to be ensured for
the next time period, even if the bid is not satisfied by the market.
Above 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,max , the bids are submitted with the minimum price 𝑝min .
It guarantees to cover the heat demand for the next 24 h. Between
these SoCs, the price is calculated using the ratio of the current demand
and heat generation as well as the technical limitations of the HP.
These equations ensure that high discharging of the TES or high heat
generation correlates with higher bid prices. By this, the probability
increases that the related bids will be accepted during market clearing.

∑

⎧ 𝑆𝑛=1 𝑝s,n,t ⋅𝑞s,n,t
,
⎪
𝑞
𝑝̂signal,t = ⎨ ∑𝐷 s,total,t
𝑝
⋅𝑞
+𝑝
⋅(𝑞
−𝑞
)
⎪ 𝑚=1 d,m,t d,m,t max d,total,t s,total,t ,
𝑞d,total,t
⎩

if 𝑄̇ d,t < 𝑄̇ CHP,t
and 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,min ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,t ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,max

2.4. Evaluation criteria for market trading

if 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,t ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,min
if 𝑄̇ d,t > 𝑄̇ CHP,t
and 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,min ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,t ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,max

if 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,t > 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,max

In this section, we introduce the KPIs which are used to analyze the
market trading and evaluate the different bidding strategies. Besides
the obtained gains of the participants, we also analyze the achieved
market prices and determine further energetic KPIs for the evaluation
of the different bidding strategies. In addition, we determine the total
costs including costs for gas consumption.
The financial benefit that the participants obtain from market trading is examined by calculating the accumulated gain with Eq. (25).

(22)
The pricing of the feed-in by CHP, presented in Eq. (22), also
takes into account heat generation and the state of charge of the
TES. However, it further takes into account that the CHP generates
electricity and while the HP consumes electricity. The maximum price
𝑝max is offered when the SoC is smaller than 𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,min , because there
is still the possibility to store the not traded generation. For a SoC above
𝑆𝑜𝐶TES,max the price 𝑝min is offered to ensure the feed-in to the grid due
to the insufficient storage capacity. Between those two SoCs the price
depends on the CHP heat generation 𝑄̇ CHP , the current heat demand
𝑄̇ d and the technical limitations of the CHP.
⎧
⎪𝑝max ,
⎪
𝑃PV,t
⎪𝑝max + (𝑝min − 𝑝max ) ⋅ 𝑃Peak ,
⎪
⎪
𝑝d,PV,t = ⎨
𝑃 −𝑃
⎪𝑝min + (𝑝max − 𝑝min ) ⋅ PV,t𝑃 dem,t ,
Peak
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪𝑝min ,
⎩

(24)

if 𝑞d,total,t ≥ 𝑞s,total,t

As shown in Eq. (24), the price signal takes into account the prices
of the supply bids and the bid quantity of the producers. The sum
of the bid quantities multiplied by the associated price is divided by
the summed bid quantity to obtain an estimation of the fluctuation of
the market price for the following prediction horizon. In the case that
demand exceeds generation, the missing difference is added with the
maximum price 𝑝max .
Due to the autonomously operating BES, a signal that only reflects
the supply prices would lead to the problem that all flexible consumers
concentrate their operations in times of low prices irrespective of the
supply quantities on the market. The purpose of considering the supply
quantities for the calculation of the price trend is to avoid demand
peaks that are higher than the available generation of the DER. In
summary, the aim of the price signal is to improve the overlap between
local demand and generation. The DO bidding strategy rewards the use
of operational flexibility financially.

𝑝d,CHP,t
⎧
⎪𝑝min ,
⎪
𝑄̇ d,t −𝑄̇ CHP,t
⎪𝑝max + (𝑝min − 𝑝max ) ⋅ 𝑄̇ d,t −𝑄̇ CHP,min ,
⎪
⎪
=⎨
𝑄̇ CHP,t −𝑄̇ d,t
⎪𝑝max + (𝑝min − 𝑝max ) ⋅ 𝑄̇
̇ ,
CHP,max −𝑄d,t
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪𝑝max ,
⎩

if 𝑞s,total,t ≥ 𝑞d,total,t

gain =

𝐷 ∑
𝑆 𝑡=8760
∑
∑

𝑞bought,𝑖,𝑡 ⋅ (𝑝max − 𝑝MCP,𝑡 ) + 𝑞sold,𝑦,𝑡 ⋅ (𝑝MCP,𝑡 − 𝑝min )

𝑖=0 𝑦=0 𝑡=0

(25)

if 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,t ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,min

The gain is calculated as the saved costs through buying on the
LEM instead of purchasing electricity at 𝑝MCP,𝑡 from the superordinate
grid at 𝑝max and the additional profit through selling at 𝑝MCP,𝑡 on the
LEM instead of feeding into the superordinate grid 𝑝min . The quantities
𝑥bought,𝑖,𝑡 and 𝑥sold,𝑖,𝑡 represent the bought and sold electricity quantity
of each participant within one market round 𝑡. The neighborhoods gain
is calculated by summation of all consumer 𝐷 and supplier 𝑆 gains of
each market round.
In [35], two energetic KPIs are presented, which are calculated
based on load and feed-in profiles. These are the demand-cover-factor
(DCF) and the supply-cover-factor (SCF). With these factors, conclusions about the coverage of the local electrical load 𝐿 by the local electrical feed-in 𝐹 or the share of locally consumed feed-in are
possible.

if 𝑃BAT,t < 0
and 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,min ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,t ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,max
if 𝑃BAT,t > 0
and 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,min ≤ 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,t ≤ 𝑆𝑂𝐶BAT,max
if 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,t > 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,max

(23)
Surplus PV power intended to be fed into the grid is offered depending on the SoC of the battery and is priced using Eq. (23). To ensure
the fed-in to the grid, the maximum price 𝑝max is offered when the SoC
is above 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,max . Below 𝑆𝑜𝐶BAT,min , the need to sell the energy is
low and thus 𝑝min is offered. Between the SoCs of the BAT, the price
depends on the current PV power generation, the PV peak power and
the power of the battery.

𝑡=8760

DCF =
7

∫𝑡=0

min{|𝐹t |; |𝐿t |}d𝑡
𝑡=8760
∫𝑡=0
|𝐿t |d𝑡

(26)

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.
Table 1
Investigated scenarios and their technology penetration.

Table 2
Technical parameters of the building devices.

Household type

PV scenario

CHP scenario

Device

Parameter

Values

Prosumer
Flexumer

20 BES with PV
20 BES with HPs

20 BES with CHPs
20 BES with HPs

Heat pump

𝑄̇ HP

12 kW

Combined heat and power

𝑄̇ CHP
𝜂CHP,el
𝜂CHP,th

12 kW
0.339
0.607

Heating rod

𝑄̇ HR
𝜂HR,th

6 kW
1

Thermal energy storage

𝑄TES,max
𝜂TES,ch
𝜂TES,dch
𝜂TES,loss

10 kWh
1
1
0.98

Photovoltaic

𝑃PV

5 kW𝑝

Battery energy storage

𝐸BAT
𝑃BAT,ch
𝜂BAT,ch
𝑃BAT,dch
𝜂BAT,dch
𝜂BAT,loss

5 kWh
3.4 kW
0.96
3.4 kW
0.96
1

𝑡=8760

SCF =

min{|𝐹t |; |𝐿t |}d𝑡

∫𝑡=0

𝑡=8760

∫𝑡=0

|𝐹t |d𝑡

(27)

To analyze the traded energy quantities resulting from the UPA, we
determine the share of traded demands and supply bids to the total
quantities submitted on the LEM. These two KPIs are introduced in the
Eqs. (28) and (29) and will be called market-based demand-cover-factor
(mDCF) and market-based supply-cover-factor (mSCF). The DCF and
the SCF represent the maximum values for the tradable bid quantities.
Thus, the difference between the DCF and the mDCF respectively the
SCF and mSCF are the energy quantities of the rejected bids. The
demand and supply quantities of the submitted bids are equal to the
local electrical load and feed-in. Due to the UPA, the traded demand
and supply quantities are also equal in each market round.
𝑡=8760

mDCF =

mSCF =

∫𝑡=0

𝑞traded,t d𝑡

𝑡=8760

∫𝑡=0

|𝐿t |d𝑡

𝑡=8760

𝑞traded,t d𝑡

∫𝑡=0

𝑡=8760

∫𝑡=0

|𝐹t |d𝑡

quantity available and therefore does not send a bid. The coordinator
sorts the bids in each market round and determines the market clearing
according to the UPA. Thus, unsatisfied bids are rejected and cannot be
traded in the next market round.
Studies investigating the learning process with variations of the
parameters have shown that the recency parameter has the greatest
influence on learning behavior. For the recency parameter, 𝑟 = 0.08
was used. The value was selected based on a previously performed
analysis with different recency parameters between 0 and 0.14 with
a step size of 0.2. For all calculations, the recency parameter was
pre-learned on a monthly basis using a yearly simulation. For the
experimentation parameter, only one value exp = 0.99 is chosen in
accordance with [31]. For the ZI bidding strategy, we set the step size
𝑠 to 1 ct/kWh for the set of prices 𝐾.

(28)

(29)

2.5. Investigated scenarios
We analyze a neighborhood with 40 single-family houses of the
TABULA construction year class 2010 till 2015. Furthermore we investigate two technology scenarios which are different in terms of the
devices for decentralized heat and electricity supply. In both scenarios,
the heat demand in 20 buildings is covered by HPs and ERs. In scenario
1, the other 20 buildings are each equipped with a CHP. In scenario 2,
gas boilers are installed in the 20 buildings, and 16 PV systems are
installed with a module area of 1.6 square meters each (see Table 1).
Following [34], we use two dimensionless characteristics 𝛼th and
𝛽th to define the thermal capacity of the heat generators and the TES
capacity of the BES. With 𝛼th = 1, we assume that the maximal power
of the heat generator 𝑄̇ heater,max is equal to the nominal heat load of
the building (including DHW demand). By setting 𝛽th = 0.2, we define
the TES capacity to be 20 % of the average daily heat demand of the
building. The required flow temperature is 𝑇f l = 35◦ C and the quality
grade to calculate the coefficient of performance of the HPs is 𝜂c = 0.4.
An overview of the remaining technical parameters is presented in
Table 2.
The annual profiles of the electrical load and heat demands are
computed for each building. To simulate the electrical load profiles, the
richardsonpy tool is used [36]. With the pyCity tool, the domestic hot
water demand profiles are determined [37]. The space heat demand of
the buildings is generated using the tool TEASER [38].
The purchasing tariff from the superordinate grid is 𝑝max = 32,16
ct/kWh. Therefore, this is the maximum possible trading price and bid
price for the LEM. Furthermore, the feed-in tariff for generated energy
that is not used within the neighborhood is 𝑝min, PV = 8,16 ct/kWh for
PV and 𝑝min, CHP = 9,65 ct/kWh for CHP. These prices correspond to
the average prices in Germany in the year 2021. Moreover, every bid
price lies within the interval of 𝑝min to 𝑝max .
We investigate a time-discrete market with an hourly frequency
of a single market round. The submission and trading of bids occurs
therefore one hour forwards. Each participant can bid exactly once
at the beginning of a market round. The number of participants can
change at any time. This is the case when a participant has no trading

3. Results
In the following, the LEM operation with the usage of the different
bidding strategies for the PV and CHP scenarios are showcased. In
Section 3.1 the different bidding strategies are compared in terms of
average market and overall prices as well as the resulting financial
benefits for the end users. In Section 3.2 the usage of the price signal is analyzed. Therefore a detailed examination of traded energy
quantities and used energy within the neighborhood is undertaken. In
Section 3.3 the effects of the operational adjustment on market trading
is examined.
3.1. Impact of the bidding strategies on achieved gains and the market
clearing prices
Fig. 3 compares the development of the accumulated gain for the
PV scenario (a) and the CHP scenario (b) with the application of the
different bidding strategies. In the PV scenario, the DO bidding strategy
achieves the highest profit for end users over the entire time horizon.
The total gain at the end of the year is 7909 e. This is followed by
the LI bidding strategy with an absolute gain of 7880 e and the ZI
bidding strategy achieves the lowest gain with 5904 e. Whereas in the
CHP scenario the DO bidding strategy achieves the highest gain with
16454 e. For the LI and ZI bidding strategies, the gains are 15574 e
and 12815 e.
The comparison between the two scenarios underlines the positive
effect of a high temporal overlapping of supply and demand. Although
the accumulated gain in the PV scenario increases continuously over
the entire time horizon, the highest gradient is smaller compared to
the one in the CHP scenario. There, the gains are mainly achieved at
8

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

Fig. 3. Total gain of the participants with the different bidding strategies.

Fig. 4. Distribution of the market clearing prices with UPA.
Table 3
Total costs and revenues of the neighborhood.

the beginning and end of the year, when the heating demand is high,
and thus electricity is being offered and demanded mainly during the
same periods of time.
Furthermore, the different curve gradients of the three bidding
strategies are conspicuous. In the respective scenario, the demand and
generation profiles are similar. Also, the market clearing prices are
thereby irrelevant to the accumulated gain of the whole neighborhood due to the joint consideration of the buyer and seller sides.
Nevertheless, the offered bid prices and thus the bidding strategies are
crucial for the market clearing and the considered energy quantities for
the transactions. Therefore, the decisive factor for the achieved gains
are the traded energy quantities, which depend on the used bidding
strategy. We analyze the traded bids in detail in Section 3.2.
Fig. 4 shows the distribution of market clearing prices for the
bidding strategies in the two scenarios. In both scenarios (a) and (b),
the average price is the highest for the DO strategy with 0.2690 e/kWh
and 0.3032 e/kWh. There the quartiles show, especially in the CHP
scenario, that transactions are often executed with prices close to the
maximum price. Consequently, achieved gains are mainly on the sellers’
side. Compared to the DO strategy, the average market price for the LI
bidding strategy is significantly lower. Additionally, in the PV scenario
it is with 0.182 e/kWh below the average market price of 0.2056
e/kWh using the ZI bidding strategy and in the CHP scenario with
0.2711 e/kWh it is above the average market price of 0.226 e/kWh
using the ZI bidding strategy. However, considering the achieved gains,
where we found the DO bidding strategy to be the most profitable, the
market prices resulting from the LI bidding strategy lead to a fairer
distribution of gains between buyer and seller.
Table 3 gives an overview of the total costs for consumed electricity
and gas as well as the revenues for electricity fed into the grid. It
also includes the electricity quantities that were not traded on the
market and were thus calculated with 𝑝min to 𝑝max if no flexibility was
available. The gas costs in the PV scenario are the same for all bidding

KPI

Electricity costs [ke]
Electricity revenues [ke]
Gas costs [ke]

PV scenario

CHP scenario

ZI

DO

LI

ZI

DO

LI

55.49
8.27
15.47

55.78
11.17
15.47

54.44
8.71
15.47

50.63
12.86
27.71

55.60
21.71
27.77

50.24
14.89
27.93

strategies because only the boilers consumed gas and the operation of
these devices was not influenced by market trading. The gas costs in the
CHP scenario are up to 12.46 ke higher because of the heat supply with
the CHP plants instead of the boilers. On the other hand, the achieved
revenues by the CHP are higher than the revenues with the PV. This
difference of the revenues in the PV and CHP scenarios is between 4.59
ke and 10.54 ke and is strongly dependent on the bidding strategy,
especially in the CHP scenario.
The additional gas costs in the CHP scenario are only compensated
by the revenues when using the DO bidding strategy. With the other
two bidding strategies, there are additional costs for end users heating
with CHP. However, the distribution of market prices in 4 shows that
the prices are always close to 𝑝max and the gains are thus mainly on the
seller side. This also explains the highest electricity costs with the DO
bidding strategy. If the gains are distributed more equally between the
buyer and seller side, see the ZI and LI bidding strategy, revenues no
longer reach the amount of the additional costs for gas consumption.
3.2. Impact of the bidding strategies on the share of traded bids
Fig. 5 shows the SCF and mSCF for the PV scenario and the CHP
scenario. In the PV scenario the SCF is the highest for the DO bidding
strategy with 47.58%. The SCF of the LI bidding strategy is 41.39%.
With an SCF of 40.31%, the ZI bidding strategy attains the lowest
9

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

Fig. 5. Supply-Cover-Factor and market-based Supply-Cover-Factor.

Fig. 6. Demand-Cover-Factor and market-based Demand-Cover-Factor.

value. The differences between the respective mSCF are greater. Again,
the DO bidding strategy achieves the highest value with 39.23%. It is
followed by the LI bidding strategy with 34.36% and the ZI strategy
with 24.99%.

can be traded with the existing supply bids are considered for transactions after the market clearing. The reason is the higher electricity
demand in the neighborhood compared to the generation. Thus also
the demanded energy quantity on the market is higher than the offered
energy quantities. Consequently, more demand bids potentially can
cover the maximum trading quantity determined by the offered energy
quantities. However, the higher simultaneity of electricity demand and
generation results in better KPIs values independent of the used bidding
strategies.

These results show that the DO bidding strategies in combination
with the price signal can increase the share of traded supply bids and
improve self-consumption in the neighborhood for a scenario with low
overlap of electricity feed-in and consumption.
In the CHP scenario, the SCF for the DO bidding strategy is highest
with 83.15% and with 44.80% the mSCF is higher than the benchmark
represented by the ZI bidding strategy. There, the SCF is 75.16% and
the mSCF is 32.00%. For the LI bidding strategy, the SCF is 77.18%
and the mSCF is 53.03%, which is the best value among the strategies
in the CHP scenario. The better results in the CHP scenario compared
to the PV scenario can be explained by the higher simultaneity of the
electricity demand of the heat pumps and the electricity generation
of the CHP. However, the most bid quantities are traded in both
scenarios with the DO bidding strategy, which indicates that the DO
bidding strategy, including a price signal and operational flexibilities
in bid pricing, again increases the quantity of traded bids. However,
considering the average market clearing price, the DO bidding strategy
is not the most effective strategy in terms of the welfare.

3.3. Impact of the operation adjustment
As described in Section 2.2.1, the energy storages compensate the
rejected energy quantities of the auction-based market trading and
the operation determined by optimization is adjusted. Fig. 7 shows
the cumulative profit at the end of the observed time horizon of the
simulations with and without operation adjustment. For both scenarios
and all bidding strategies, the operation adjustment achieves higher
gains. The explanation is that the energy quantities of the rejected
bids are not billed with minimum and maximum prices. There is the
possibility of acquiring these required energy quantities in further
market rounds through the LEM. Although this results in deviations
from the optimal operating plan, the economic benefits for the end user
increase.

The DCF and the mDCF are presented in Fig. 6. In the PV scenario
the DCF is also the highest for the DO bidding strategy with. The DCF of
the LI and ZI bidding strategies have almost the same niveau with and.
The mDCF is for the LI bidding strategy, for the DO bidding strategy and
for the ZI bidding strategy. Again in the CHP scenario, the DO bidding
strategy achieves the highest DCF with , also the mDCF is highest for
this strategy with. The LI bidding strategy is next with for the DCF and
for the share of traded demand bids. For the ZI bidding strategy, the
DCF is and the mDCF is.

4. Final conclusions and future work
In this study, we implement a LEM for building energy systems in
neighborhoods. We apply a distributed market with a time-discretely
two-sided auction. For the market clearing the uniform pricing scheme
is used. In this context, three bidding strategies (zero-intelligent, deviceoriented and learning-intelligent) are comparatively examined. We
investigate the impact of the bidding strategies for a PV scenario
and a CHP scenario, which allows us to make conclusions about the

Generally, the gap between the mDCF and the DCF, representing the
maximum possible value, is smaller than for the share of traded supply
bids and the SCF. This means that more demand bids that maximally
10

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

Fig. 7. Total gain of the participants with the different bidding strategies.

advantages of different devices. Furthermore, we test the effects of
operational adjustment resulting from rejected bids, which can occur
in auction-based market trading.
This study introduces an auction-based local energy market with
different, modular selectable bidding strategies and the implementation
of an evaluation methodology emphasizing economic and energetic
analyses. Since the market design as well as the modeling of the
building energy systems and the operational optimization remain the
same, a new uniform evaluation methodology for bidding strategies is
established and used to evaluate a DO bidding strategy comparatively
for the first time. Our findings successfully fulfill the predetermined
research objective and offer valuable insights into the substantial impact of bidding strategies within LEMs, which may play an important
role for the further integration of renewable energy, DERs and energy
management systems in buildings and neighborhoods. We derive the
following conclusions from the results:

costs outweigh the achieved gains for all investigated bidding
strategies.
• The adjustment of the operation ensures that rejected energy
quantities can be traded in the following market rounds. With this
feature, higher energy quantities are traded on the LEM The end
users can increase their gains in both scenarios for the DO bidding
strategy up to 799 e and 1959 e.
Based on the model limitations, results and analysis of this work,
we recommend investigating the following aspects in more detail in
the future:
• For the DO bidding strategy we have formulated equations specific to each device accounting the SoC of the energy storage and
incorporated a price signal. In future work, exploring further price
equations considering operational flexibilities and other signals
such as supply–demand-ratio or mid-market-range can enable
a comparative analysis to enhance the effectiveness of the DO
bidding strategy.
• The market clearing process was conducted solely using uniform pricing, without exploring alternative auction mechanisms
like Pay-as-Bid or the Vickrey auction. Additionally, negotiation
mechanisms were not included in this study. Subsequent research
could explore how the performance of bidding strategies varies
under different market clearing processes.
• Since in this study market trading and operational optimization are only executed time-discretely with an hourly resolution,
following studies should investigate operation of the BES using
high-temporal resolution simulations to verify the feasibility of
the market-based operation. In particular, the assumed flexibility
of the devices must be examined. Moreover, the corresponding
grid conditions should be determined in order to analyze whether
critical grid conditions are avoided.
• We assumed perfect foresight for the energy demands and weather
conditions in the predictive operation optimization. In reality,
forecast deviations are possible and thus also influence the available trading quantities, which deviate from the bid quantities. For
this reason, a real-time market can be added to investigate the
effects of forecast deviations.
• In the motivation, we mentioned that LEMs could bring financial
benefits to the end user and thus promote the integration of
renewable energy systems. Obviously, the crucial decision factor
for an investment is the required time to refinance the investment through the cost savings. Therefore, we recommend further
research on the payback period for the investment of different
devices as well as potential price developments for electricity and
gas.

• Auction-based LEM trading is a promising approach that reduces
energy costs in neighborhoods and creates financial incentives to
promote the integration of renewable energy in the long term.
The selected bidding strategy clearly impacts the achieved gains
and, in particular, the distribution of gains between the buy and
sell sides. In this work, the DO bidding strategy led to the best
results of achieved gains with 7909 e in the PV and 16454 e in
the CHP scenario.
• The average market clearing prices are highest for the DO bidding
strategies with 0.269 e/kWh for the PV scenario and 0.3032
e/kWh for the CHP scenario. Consequently, the gains are mainly
distributed to the sell side. For a fair distribution of the gains, the
average market clearing price should be the mean of 𝑝min to 𝑝max .
Closest to this mean value are the average market clearing prices
0.2056 e/kWh and 0.226 e/kWh that result when using the ZI
bidding strategy.
• The approach of the DO bidding strategy to reward the use of
flexibility financially and to activate the flexibilities through a
dynamic price signal results in higher energy quantities traded on
the market in the PV scenario. In particular, the share of traded
selling bids increases compared to the other bidding strategies
and is 39.23%. In contrast, for the CHP scenario the mSCF is the
highest with 53.03% using the LI bidding strategy.
• Through the two selected scenarios, we have shown the influence
of different devices in the neighborhood on market trading. The
decisive factor here is the temporal course of supply and demand
on the market, which is determined by the electrical demand
and feed-in of the BES. The involvement of CHPs results in
significantly higher revenues compared to the involvement of
PV systems. However, the additional gas consumption and its
11

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

CRediT authorship contribution statement

[12] Zhou Y, Wu J, Long C, Ming W. State-of-the-art analysis and perspectives
for Peer-to-Peer energy trading. Engineering 2020;6(7):739–53. http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.eng.2020.06.002, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/
pii/S2095809920301405.
[13] Tushar W, Yuen C, Saha T, Morstyn T, Chapman A, Alam MJE, et al. Peer-toPeer energy systems for connected communities: A review of recent advances
and emerging challenges. Appl Energy 2021;282:116131. http://dx.doi.org/10.
1016/j.apenergy.2020.116131, URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2011.11118.
[14] Alam MR, St-Hilaire M, Kunz T. Peer-to-peer energy trading among smart homes.
Appl Energy 2019;238:1434–43. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.01.
091, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0306261919300935.
[15] Luo F, Dong ZY, Liang G, Murata J, Xu Z. A distributed electricity trading system
in active distribution networks based on multi-agent coalition and blockchain.
IEEE Trans Power Syst 2019;34(5):4097–108. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.
2018.2876612, URL https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8494790/.
[16] Sousa T, Soares T, Pinson P, Moret F, Baroche T, Sorin E. Peer-to-peer and
community-based markets: A comprehensive review. Renew Sustain Energy
Rev 2019;104:367–78. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2019.01.036, URL https:
//linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S1364032119300462.
[17] Zhou Y, Wu J, Long C. Evaluation of peer-to-peer energy sharing
mechanisms based on a multiagent simulation framework. Appl Energy
2018;222:993–1022. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2018.02.089, URL
https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0306261918302149.
[18] Klein M. Auctions and bidding: A guide for computer scientists. SSRN Electron
J 2011. http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3794860, URL https://www.ssrn.com/
abstract=3794860.
[19] Sorin E, Bobo L, Pinson P. Consensus-based approach to Peer-to-Peer electricity
markets with product differentiation. IEEE Trans Power Syst 2019;34(2):994–
1004. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2018.2872880, URL https://ieeexplore.
ieee.org/document/8481579/.
[20] Kok K, Roossien B, MacDougall P, van Pruissen O, Venekamp G, Kamphuis R,
et al. Dynamic pricing by scalable energy management systems &#x2014;
Field experiences and simulation results using PowerMatcher. In: 2012 IEEE
power and energy society general meeting. San Diego, CA: IEEE; 2012, p. 1–
8. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/PESGM.2012.6345058, URL http://ieeexplore.ieee.
org/document/6345058/
[21] Shen F, Wu Q, Jin X, Zhou B, Li C, Xu Y. ADMM-based market clearing
and optimal flexibility bidding of distribution-level flexibility market for dayahead congestion management of distribution networks. Int J Electr Power
Energy Syst 2020;123:106266. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2020.106266,
URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0142061520306645.
[22] El-Baz W, Tzscheutschler P, Wagner U. Integration of energy markets in
microgrids: A double-sided auction with device-oriented bidding strategies.
Appl Energy 2019;241:625–39. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.02.
049, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0306261919303460.
[23] Haas M, Zoican MA. Discrete or continuous trading? HFT competition and
liquidity on batch auction markets. SSRN Electron J 2016. http://dx.doi.org/
10.2139/ssrn.2738071, URL http://www.ssrn.com/abstract=2738071.
[24] Kilkki O, Repo S, Mendes G, Ferreira JR, Lezama F, Faia R, Faria P,
Vale Z, Matos L, Landeck J, Klein L, Almeida B, Ahmad Y, Terras JM.
DOMINOES D2.3 - Scalable local energy market architecture, D2.3, Tech.
rep.
https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/documents/downloadPublic?
documentIds=080166e5cad9d2d1&appId=PPGMS.
[25] Nojavan S, Zare K, editors. Electricity markets: New players and pricing
uncertainties. Cham: Springer; 2020,
[26] Prabavathi M, Gnanadass R. Energy bidding strategies for restructured electricity
market. Int J Electr Power Energy Syst 2015;64:956–66. http://dx.doi.org/
10.1016/j.ijepes.2014.08.018, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/
S0142061514005444.
[27] Lin J, Pipattanasomporn M, Rahman S. Comparative analysis of auction
mechanisms and bidding strategies for P2P solar transactive energy markets. Appl Energy 2019;255:113687. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.
113687, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0306261919313741.
[28] Kühnbach M, Bekk A, Weidlich A. Towards improved prosumer participation: Electricity trading in local markets. Energy 2022;239:122445. http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2021.122445, URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0360544221026943.
[29] Okwuibe GC, Wadhwa M, Brenner T, Tzscheutschler P, Hamacher T. Intelligent
Bidding strategies in local electricity markets: A simulation-based analysis. In:
2020 IEEE electric power and energy conference. Edmonton, AB, Canada: IEEE;
2020, p. 1–7. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/EPEC48502.2020.9320067, URL https:
//ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9320067/.
[30] Gode DK, Sunder S. Allocative efficiency of markets with zero-intelligence
traders: Market as a partial substitute for individual rationality. J Polit
Econ 1993;101(1):119–37. http://dx.doi.org/10.1086/261868, URL https://
www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1086/261868.
[31] Nicolaisen J, Petrov V, Tesfatsion L. Market power and efficiency in a computational electricity market with discriminatory double-auction pricing. IEEE
Trans Evol Comput 2001;5(5):504–23. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/4235.956714,
URL http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/956714/.

Joel David Schölzel: Conceptualization, Investigation, Methodology, Visualization, Writing – original draft. Sarah Henn: Methodology,
Supervision, Writing – review & editing. Milena Tings: Methodology,
Writing – review & editing. Rita Streblow: Writing – review & editing.
Dirk Müller: Writing – review & editing.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing interests:
Joel David Schoelzel reports financial support was provided by Federal
Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action. If there are other
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence
the work reported in this paper.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.
Acknowledgment
We gratefully acknowledge the financial support by Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action (BMWK), promotional
reference 03EWB003B.
References
[1] Deutsche Energie-Agentur (Hrsg). Energy communities: Beschleuniger der
dezentralen Energiewende. Tech. rep., 2022.
[2] Bogensperger A, Estermann T, Köppl S, Wohlschlager D, Faller S, Müller M. Wie
die Digitalisierung die Rolle von Verbrauchern verändert. Tech. rep., München;
2019, p. 78.
[3] Jin X, Wu Q, Jia H. Local flexibility markets: Literature review on concepts,
models and clearing methods. Appl Energy 2020;261:114387. http://dx.doi.org/
10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.114387, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/
pii/S0306261919320744.
[4] Lovati M, Huang P, Olsmats C, Yan D, Zhang X. Agent based modelling of a
local energy market: A study of the economic interactions between autonomous
PV owners within a micro-grid. Buildings 2021;11(4):160. http://dx.doi.org/10.
3390/buildings11040160, URL https://www.mdpi.com/2075-5309/11/4/160.
[5] Bose S, Kremers E, Mengelkamp EM, Eberbach J, Weinhardt C. Reinforcement
learning in local energy markets. Energy Inform. 2021;4(1):7. http://dx.doi.
org/10.1186/s42162-021-00141-z, URL https://energyinformatics.springeropen.
com/articles/10.1186/s42162-021-00141-z.
[6] Suthar S, Cherukuri SHC, Pindoriya NM. Peer-to-peer energy trading in smart
grid: Frameworks, implementation methodologies, and demonstration projects.
Electr Power Syst Res 2023;214:108907. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2022.
108907, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0378779622009580.
[7] Maurer L, Barroso L. Electricity auctions: An overview of efficient practices. The
World Bank; 2011, http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-8822-8, URL http:
//elibrary.worldbank.org/doi/book/10.1596/978-0-8213-8822-8.
[8] DIRECTIVE (EU) 2018/ 2001 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE
COUNCIL - of 11 December 2018 - on the promotion of the use of energy from
renewable sources. 2018, p. 128.
[9] Lowitzsch J, Hoicka C, van Tulder F. Renewable energy communities under
the 2019 European Clean Energy Package – Governance model for the energy
clusters of the future? Renew Sustain Energy Rev 2020;122:109489. http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2019.109489, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/
retrieve/pii/S1364032119306975.
[10] F.G. Reis I, Gonçalves I, A.R. Lopes M, Henggeler Antunes C. Business models for
energy communities: A review of key issues and trends. Renew Sustain Energy
Rev 2021;144:111013. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2021.111013, URL https:
//linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S1364032121003038.
[11] Mengelkamp E, Staudt P, Garttner J, Weinhardt C. Trading on local energy
markets: A comparison of market designs and bidding strategies. In: 2017 14th
international conference on the European energy market. Dresden, Germany:
IEEE; 2017, p. 1–6. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/EEM.2017.7981938, URL http:
//ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7981938/.
12

Energy 291 (2024) 130211

J.D. Schölzel et al.

[36] Richardson I, Thomson M, Infield D, Clifford C. Domestic electricity use: A highresolution energy demand model. Energy Build 2010;42(10):1878–87. http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2010.05.023, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/
retrieve/pii/S0378778810001854.
[37] Schiefelbein J, Rudnick J, Scholl A, Remmen P, Fuchs M, Müller D. Automated
urban energy system modeling and thermal building simulation based on
OpenStreetMap data sets. Build Environ 2019;149:630–9. http://dx.doi.org/10.
1016/j.buildenv.2018.12.025, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/
S0360132318307686.
[38] Remmen P, Lauster M, Mans M, Fuchs M, Osterhage T, Müller D. TEASER:
an open tool for urban energy modelling of building stocks. J Build Perform
Simul 2018;11(1):84–98. http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19401493.2017.1283539,
URL https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/19401493.2017.1283539.

[32] Weidlich A, Veit D. A critical survey of agent-based wholesale electricity market models. Energy Econ 2008;30(4):1728–59. http://dx.doi.org/
10.1016/j.eneco.2008.01.003, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/
S0140988308000170.
[33] Erev I, Rapoport A. Coordination, ‘‘Magic,’’ and reinforcement learning
in a market entry game. Games Econom Behav 1998;23(2):146–75. http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1006/game.1997.0619, URL https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/
retrieve/pii/S0899825697906199.
[34] Stinner S, Huchtemann K, Müller D. Quantifying the operational flexibility of building energy systems with thermal energy storages. Appl Energy
2016;181:140–54. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2016.08.055, URL https:
//linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0306261916311424.
[35] Müller D, Monti A, Stinner S, Schlösser T. Energieoptimiertes Bauen. Tech. rep.,
2017.

13

