Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Journal of Energy Storage
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/est

Research papers

Distributed optimal storage strategy in the ADMM-based peer-to-peer
energy trading considering degradation cost
Binghui Han a , Younes Zahraoui b , Marizan Mubin a, * , Saad Mekhilef c , Tarmo Korõtko d ,
Obaid Alshammari e
a

Power Electronics and Renewable Energy Research Laboratory (PEARL), Department of Electrical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University of Malaya, Kuala
Lumpur 50603, Malaysia
Department of Engineering Cybernetics Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), 7034 Trondheim, Norway
c
School of Software and Electrical Engineering, Faculty of Science, Engineering and Technology, Swinburne University of Technology, Victoria, VIC 3122, Australia
d
Department of Electrical Power Engineering and Mechatronics Tallinn University of Technology, 19086 Tallinn, Estonia
e
Department of Electrical Engineering, College of Engineering, University of Hail, Hail 2240, Saudi Arabia
b

A R T I C L E I N F O

A B S T R A C T

Keywords:
Peer-to-peer energy trading
Alternating direction method of multiplier
Degradation cost
Optimal storage strategy
Micro grid

The increasing installed capacity of distributed energy resources (DERs) allows prosumers to have a more flexible
and proactive role in power system operation. At the same time, it may affect the stability of the power grid. To
reduce the DERs penetration in the main grid and maximize the profit of the end-users, a new energy trading
paradigm called peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading emerges in the area of the local community microgrid.
However, few of the previous works combine types of energy generation and storage equipment to the microgrid
framework and propose a throughout distributed optimization solution to this scalable framework considering
the impact of battery degradation cost. In this paper, a novel parallel market clearing mechanism is proposed for
P2P energy trading with end-users in a highly scalable residential community microgrid. The proposed mech­
anism takes into account a variety of realistic factors such as household privacy, user preferences, peak shaving
services, community power grid-related usage fees, point-to-point bilateral transaction weights, and battery
degradation costs. To make the microgrid more scalable, each household in the community is designed with
different household energy generation and storage appliances including photovoltaic panels, wind turbines, plugin electrical vehicles, and various household batteries with different capacities. A distributed approach based on
the alternating direction method of multiplier (ADMM) algorithm is presented to solve the energy pricing
problem while guaranteeing the privacy of all participants. The designed comparative case studies take into
consideration the types of users, grid transaction methods, the influence of peak shaving fee, the impact of energy
storage equipment, and the effect of battery degradation costs. The results show a significant reduction of both
the cost of each user and the total cost in the P2P energy market while considering the degradation cost of home
energy management systems and plug-in electric vehicles. The case studies also present that prosumers have
greater advantages than consumers in P2P energy transactions. Peak shaving service and home energy storage
devices can distribute and utilize energy more efficiently.

1. Introduction
With the increase in the world’s population and the development of
industrialization, people’s quality of life has improved, and the demand for
electricity has increased accordingly year by year. In the last thirty years,
the world’s total electricity consumption has more than doubled, and
electricity consumption in various sectors has also been rising [1]. In order

to solve this problem, a large amount of power generation and trans­
mission infrastructure has been built all over the world [2]. However, the
main energy sources of these power generation systems are fossil fuels,
namely oil, natural gas, and coal, which will cause increasingly serious
environmental pollution and gradually rising electricity costs [3].
After the first oil crisis in the 1970s, governments and organizations
taking into account economic interests, security issues, and

* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: 17220675@siswa.um.edu.my (B. Han), marizan@um.edu.my (M. Mubin), smekhilef@swin.edu.au (S. Mekhilef), os.alshammari@uoh.edu.sa
(O. Alshammari).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.112651
Received 28 February 2024; Received in revised form 1 June 2024; Accepted 16 June 2024
Available online 26 June 2024
2352-152X/© 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

stability of the power grid [5]. Specifically, the fluctuating and inter­
mittent characteristics of RESs may generate new peaks in the grid load
curve [12]. In addition, residential distributed energy generation is
more likely to be interrupted or even damaged during natural disasters,
causing the grid to be impacted [13].
In order to reduce the penetration level of renewable energy in the
power grid, balance the power trading of local microgrid, maximize the
profits of end users, and achieve overall low-carbon environmental
protection, many utilities are actively reformulating market structures
and tariffs to incentivize the small-capacity household DERs to realize
prioritized internal energy transactions or self-production and selfconsumption in the local microgrid [9]. The concept of peer-to-peer
(P2P) energy trading based on prosumers in the residential commu­
nity microgrid has also emerged due to this demand and attracted
people’s attention.
Compared with traditional energy trading models, P2P energy
trading is distributed, and energy is often exchanged over short dis­
tances. P2P platforms allow electricity producers and consumers to bid
for and sell or buy electricity and other services directly [14], and
manage payments and tariffs to the distributed grid based on some
pricing factors such as the type of service and the distance between
prosumers and consumers [15]. Therefore, it can not only reduce the
energy loss of the system, be suitable for the deployment of DERs, and
provide end users with greater flexibility in energy transactions, but also
protect the security and privacy of each participant in the P2P market
[16].
On the other hand, the P2P market is more complex than the existing
electricity market, as it is conceived as a multi-agent system that in­
cludes not only different types of services but also a wider group of
prosumers [9]. These participants fulfill diverse and changing roles, and
there are lots of providers of each productive service. In a P2P market,
prosumers not only respond to price signals but also actively provide
services for which utilities, transmission system operators, or other
prosumers must bid [9]. Besides, when prosumers are allowed to share
energy at the community level, the community’s overall electricity
purchases reflect prosumers’ preferences. In other words, prosumers
trade energy based on their personal goals rather than those of a third
party.
In summary, local P2P markets based on the local community
microgrid may be the key to managing DER generation and coordinating
complex distributed models that satisfy self-interested autonomous
multi-agents.
As an emerging approach to promote efficient use of local resources,
literature on the development of P2P energy trading market mechanisms
has received increasing attention recently. The approaches in these ar­
ticles include blockchain [17,18], game theory [18], simulation [19,20],
optimization, and other algorithms [21], etc. [22]. In this study, we
mainly focus on the improvement of the local community grid archi­
tecture and the method of optimization with the goal of reduction in
kinds of costs during the P2P energy trading. For example, in [23], a
three-stage multi-energy sharing strategy was proposed for a gaselectricity integrated energy system to solve the multi-energy imbal­
ance in the P2P energy trading. The results show the improvement of the
social welfare and the satisfaction fairness of the system. In [24], a novel
P2P energy trading system was designed for the local microgrid where
each house in it is equipped with different types of energy generation
and battery storage. It is worth noting that in order to reduce depen­
dence on the grid and effectively utilize the house’s excess energy, the
microgrid is equipped with a central battery which played a crucial role
in increasing the profit for all end-users in the MG. In, an optimization
model was developed for a local community with 500 households in P2P
energy trading environment. The users in the MG are equipped with
rooftop PV generation and battery storage. The overall model consid­
ered real-world constraints including the scale of PV systems, PV
penetration, battery storages, customer demand profiles and market
signals including retail prices, feed-in tariff, and P2P trading

Fig. 1. World electricity consumption by sectors in 2020.

environmental requirements urgently needed one or more safe alter­
native new clean energy sources to ensure the continuation of daily
production and life [4]. Renewable energy sources such as solar and
wind energy are increasingly becoming the focus of research due to their
availability, applicability, environmental friendliness, and almost no
terrain restrictions [5]. Nowadays, the rational development and effec­
tive utilization of renewable energy have been widely regarded as an
important part of solving the social energy crisis.
As shown in Fig. 1, residential electricity consumption accounted for
27.6 % of the world’s total electricity consumption in 2020 [1].
Renewable energy generation for the residential sector has also been
increasing highly according to the report of the International Energy
Agency in 2022 [6]. This means that residential-based new energy
equipment construction and power production and consumption opti­
mization have great potential in the future global energy-saving
movement.
However, unlike traditional energy sources, most renewable energy
sources (RESs) are volatile and intermittent, making it difficult to pre­
dict their power output, which not only increases the difficulty of power
transmission and distribution but also creates new challenges when
large-scale RES generations enter the main grids [3]. In recent years,
thanks to the development of various intelligent technologies such as
communication technology, control technology, and energy storage
technology [7], a variety of small household distributed energy re­
sources (DERs) and energy storage equipment such as solar photovoltaic
(PV) panels, wind turbines, plug- in electric vehicles (PEVs), and home
energy storage systems (HESSs) have been widely used. Various smart
home and home automation technologies with integrated energy man­
agement components are also becoming increasingly popularized [8].
These technologies enable the vast number of consumers at the end of
the grid to match and optimize their electricity consumption according
to their individual electricity needs and generation & storage prefer­
ences, thereby saving money or energy in a simple and smart way. At the
same time, they also lead to a large number of consumers in the grid
shifting to prosumers [9].
Unlike the consumers in the traditional power grid who are regarded
as peers who can only buy and consume power energy from other peers
and the grid, the prosumers are usually regarded as peers who are
equipped with DER generations such as PV panels and wind turbines and
can produce, and sell surplus energy to other peers and the grid [10].
DERs enhance prosumers flexibility and they enable prosumers to play a
more proactive role in the operation of future smart decentralized power
systems [11]. These prosumers are both recipients of energy consump­
tion and active providers of grid energy services and can complement or
even compete with traditional utilities and energy companies [11].
However, the continuous increase in the installed capacity of DERs in
residential power grids may lead to an energy surplus and affect the
2

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 2. Architecture of the residential community microgrid.

Fig. 3. Communication structure of four types of markets, (a) Pool-based market, in which all houses interconnect with the main power grid directly, (b) Peer-to-peer
market, in which all houses are regarded as prosumers and straight interrelate with each other, (c) Completely hybrid market, in which a group of prosumers form a
local microgrid, connected to the main grid, and prioritize energy transactions internally, and (d) Simplified hybrid market, in which the end-users of the local
microgrid are divided into two groups connected to the main grid and prioritize energy transactions internally.

3

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 4. Flow chart of the charging and discharging strategy for the HESS and PEV of Prosumer 1.

mechanism. The results showed the importance of larger PV systems and
battery storage with maximal savings of users up to 28 %.
As shown above, the configuration of the local microgrid has great
variability due to the flow of community residential users and the
replacement of equipment, so scalability needs to be considered as a
primary challenge when dealing with prosumer-centric markets [11]. In
addition, various product differentiation mechanisms and user

preferences in the P2P energy markets have been studied separately in
many pieces of literature which were summarized in [25], but few works
have mentioned the impact of multiple factors on P2P energy trans­
actions. Moreover, the impact of the installation of home storage devices
on P2P energy trading is rarely evaluated in the literature too.
Furthermore, due to the distributed nature of P2P, distributed opti­
mization methods, such as the alternating direction multiplier method
4

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 5. The flowchart of the proposed distributed ADMM optimization for P2P
market at a time step.

(ADMM), are more suitable than centralized methods to solve problems
in P2P energy system research [26]. For instance, in [27], a novel
decentralized P2P market structure based on the ADMM algorithm was
implemented, which named the DSF demand-side flexibility (DSF)
market. The proposed market structure was modeled with the MINLP
algorithm with GAMS software platform. The numerical results showed
a 15.9 % energy supply for all customers who participated in the DSF
market. They also demonstrated the effectiveness of the reduction in
congestion in the upstream network by incentivizing customers to
participate in DSF programs. In [28], a feasible and privacy-preserving
P2P energy trading scheme is proposed by Prosumer Preference Based
Segmented Distributed Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers
(PPBSD-ADMM). Simulation results presented cost reduction for pro­
sumers up to 54.55 %, consumers up to 33.28 %, and MG up to 34.65 %.
In [29], a novel privacy-preserving algorithm to maximize the social
welfare in the P2P market was proposed based on the Segmentation
Based Distributed Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers and a
nodes color-based technique. Numerical results illustrated that the
overall costs can be reduced for consumers up to 30.23 % and prosumers
up to 44.34 %. In addition, the ADMM method is also suitable for pro­
tecting the privacy [30] and security [31] of end-user data with a high
computation speed. However, existing ADMM algorithms usually
require each participant in the system to update variables in a certain
order, although all participants work in parallel [9].
Therefore, the goal of this work is to propose a novel parallel P2P
energy trading market clearing mechanism using a distributed ADMM
algorithm based on a highly scalable residential community microgrid
framework.
This study has the following four highlights:

Fig. 6. Flow chart of the overall optimization algorithm for P2P energy trading.

(prosumers and consumers), two types of DERs (solar panels and
wind turbines), PEVs, and HESSs.
2) Based on this microgrid framework, an ADMM algorithm is proposed
that can be combined with the charging and discharging strategies of
PEVs and HESSs. It has distributed and parallel characteristics, which
not only save computing power but are also generally suitable for
most P2P market structures and computing platforms.
3) The proposed algorithm takes into account a variety of realistic
factors such as household privacy, user preferences, peak shaving
services, community power grid-related usage fees, point-to-point
bilateral transaction weights, and battery degradation costs, and
the simulation results obtained are more valuable for reference.
4) The designed comparative experimental case takes into consider­
ation the types of users, grid transaction methods, the impact of
energy storage equipment, and the impact of battery degradation
costs. The results show that prosumers have greater advantages than
pure consumers in P2P transactions, and home energy storage de­
vices can distribute and utilize energy more efficiently.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, the
modeling of architecture of the designed community is introduced and
objective functions modeling of the P2P energy trading is formulated.
Then, Section 3 introduces the improved charging and discharging
strategy for the battery of HESS and PEV. The distributed parallel ADMM
algorithm is also proposed to solve the optimization problem. Results

1) A residential community microgrid framework with high scalability
is designed that simultaneously includes two types of users

5

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Table 1
Summary of the components deployed in each house.
Equipment

Prosumer 1

Prosumer 2

Prosumer 3

Consumer 1

Consumer 2

Consumer 3

Photovoltaic panels
Wind turbines
Plug-in electrical vehicles
Home energy storage system

✓
✘
✓
✓

✘
✓
✘
✓

✘
✓
✘
✘

✘
✘
✓
✘

✘
✘
✘
✓

✘
✘
✘
✘

Table 2
Parameters of preference and appliances for each house in the community microgrid.
Houses

Prosumer 1

Prosumer 2

Prosumer 3

Consumer 1

Consumer 2

Consumer 3

i

1
0.0031

2
0.0014

3
0.0041

4
0.0063

5
0.0051

6
0.0032

(
)
ai cents/kWh2
(
)
bi cents/kWh2
Cmax
HESS (kWh)

Cint
HESS (kWh)
Cmax
PEV (kWh)
Cint
PEV (kWh)

8.71

2.25

6.29

2.24

4.3

8.26

8
3.5
30
12

13
5
\
\

\
\
\
\

\
\
30
12

11
4
\
\

\
\
\
\

microgrid are linked by bidirectional communication and power flows.
All prosumers are deployed with DER generators to produce and sell
surplus energy to other houses of the community microgrid or the main
grid, which include ①: the house with PV panels, a HESS, and a PEV
(Prosumer 1), ②: the house with a wind turbine and a HESS (Prosumer
2), and ③: the house with a wind turbine (Prosumer 3). All consumers
only equip consumption appliances and can only buy the required en­
ergy from other houses or the grid, which include ④: the house with a
PEV (Consumer 1), ⑤: the house with a HESS (Consumer 2), and ⑥: the
house with only the common loads (Consumer 3). P2PSO is responsible
for P2P energy transactions including the price and power to be traded
between all prosumers and all consumers in the community microgrid. It
also controls the energy transactions and the connection between the
community microgrid and the main grid. If there is a shortage or surplus
of energy in the local market, the P2PSO needs to purchase the shortage
of electricity from the main grid or sell the excess electricity to the main
grid [32].

Table 3
Common parameters for HESSs and PEVs used in the community microgrid.
Parameters for HESS

Parameters for PEV

Pchmax
HESS (kW)

3

dis
ηch
HESS /ηHESS

0.92
1.04RTPAVG

Pdismax
HESS (kW)
RTPdis
HESS

− 3

Pchmax
(kW)
PEV

4

dis
ηch
PEV /ηPEV

0.92
1.08RTPAVG

Pdismax
(kW)
PEV
RTPdis
PEV

− 4

and discussion of numerical simulation case studies are elucidated and
summarized in Section 4. Finally, the conclusions of this work are pre­
sented in Section 5.
2. Mathematical model
In this study, a highly scalable residential community microgrid has
been designed by considering the differences in user preferences and
equipment installations among families in the community. The calcu­
lated time horizon is set to 24 h, and the time interval Δt is set to 1 h. The
total number of time intervals are T = 24 (T = 24 h/Δt). t ∈ [1, T] is the
time stamp within the time horizon. As shown in Fig. 2, this microgrid is
built based on three types of prosumers, three types of consumers, one
distribution system operator (DSO), and one P2P system operator
(P2PSO), to compare the costs and effects of each type of house in the
community microgrid with and without P2P energy trading.
Specifically, the DSO runs the power system infrastructure of the grid
in this work and guarantees the stability and reliability of the energy
operations. The community is organized by a group of consumers and
prosumers that have no explicit legal form. All the houses in the

2.1. Peer-to-peer energy trading communication structure
Unlike the existing pool-based markets shown in Fig. 3(a), the typical
architecture of a fully connected P2P electricity market, see Fig. 3(b),
can be seen as an internal energy trading market where all participants,
in the community microgrid exchange their requirements and supplies.
Usually, the participants are prosumers and their exceed generation can
meet the consumption of each other properly. In a peer-to-peer market,
it is assumed that in principle any agent should be able to negotiate with
any other agent [33]. However, in most cases, this ideal condition
cannot be obtained because of the living and appliance installation
preference of the peers.

Fig. 7. Real-time purchase and sale prices of the main grid.
6

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 8. Data of generation and consumption of all houses in the community microgrid, (a) generation data of three prosumers, in which Prosumer 1 equips PV panels,
Prosumer 2 and Prosumer 3 deploy wind turbines, (b) consumption data of all prosumers and consumers.

2.2.1. Electricity cost with the main grid
Denote m the total number of houses in the community. i, j ∈ [1, m]
are the indices of each house, either prosumer or consumer, in the
community. Pi,Gb (t) and Pi,Gs (t) are the amount of power bought from
and sold to the main grid respectively by house i at time t. QGb (t) and
QGs (t) are the price of power purchased from and sold to the main grid
respectively by house i at time t. Then, the energy cost of house i with the
main grid at time t is described by Eq. (1).

Table 4
Description of case studies and the total cost of the community in different cases.
Cases

Grid

P2P

Peak shaving

HESS

Degradation

Cost

1
2
3
4
5

YES
YES
YES
YES
YES

NO
YES
YES
YES
YES

NO
NO
YES
YES
YES

NO
NO
NO
YES
YES

NO
NO
NO
YES
NO

6977.95
5084.69
5049.41
5006.38
4930.31

Ci,G (t) = QGb (t)Pi,Gb (t) − QGs (t)Pi,Gs (t)
Fig. 3(c) shows the full hybrid market, in which a group of prosumers
form a local microgrid, connected to the main grid, and prioritize energy
transactions internally [9]. It can not only conduct internal P2P energy
transactions, but also trade excess or lack of energy within the com­
munity through the main grid. However, a large communication capa­
bility is required in this market too, since every peer in it needs to
connect to all other peers at the same time.
For simplicity, only bipartite hybrid electricity markets are consid­
ered here, i.e., with a graph as in Fig. 3(d). This graph means all the
houses are divided into two groups, i.e. prosumers and consumers. As a
result, each house can only communicate with other houses in another
group, but not with the houses inside the same group [14]. Besides, all
the houses in the system are assumed to behave non-strategically and
will not learn from others during the trading.

(1)

2.2.2. P2P energy trading costs with other peers
Denote Ni (t) the neighboring set of peer i at time t. Pij (t) represents
the power to be traded between peer i and peer j at time t. Pi,tr (t) is
considered as the total power to be traded of peer i at time t, which can
be calculated by Eq. (2).
∑
Pi,tr (t) =
Pij (t)
(2)
j∈Ni

If the value of Pi,tr is smaller than zero, it means house i is a prosumer
and sells electricity to other consumers. And, if the value of Pi,tr is larger
than zero, it means house i is a consumer and buys electricity from other
prosumers.
Then, the mathematical formulation of the P2P energy trading costs
of house i at time t can be represented by Eq. (3), which consists of four
components as follows.

2.2. Objective function
This work related to P2P energy trading among houses in the com­
munity microgrid and energy trading between each house and the main
grid. The objective function of the problem is to minimize the total
electricity costs of the community by minimizing the costs of each house
in the community. The costs of each house include buying and selling
electricity with the main grid and P2P energy trading costs with other
peers considering the battery degradation costs of HESS and PEV in the
house.

Ci,P1 (t) = ai (t)P2i,tr (t) + ̃
bi (t)Pi,tr (t)

(3a)

Ci,P2 (t) = βPi,tr (t)

(3b)

⃦
⃦
⃦∑
⃦
⃦
⃦
Ci,P3 (t) = − γ⃦ Pi,tr (t) ⃦
⃦ i∈N
⃦
i

7

(3c)
∞

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 9. Energy utilization details of each peer in the community in Case 1, (a) energy utilization details of Prosumer 1, (b) energy utilization details of Prosumer 2, (c)
energy utilization details of Prosumer 3, (d) energy utilization details of Consumer 1, (e) energy utilization details of Consumer 2, (f) energy utilization details of
Consumer 3, (g) energy utilization details of the PEV of Prosumer 1, (h) energy utilization details of the PEV of Consumer 1.

Ci,P4 (t) =

∑
di,j Pi,j (t)
j∈Ni

time t can be approximated with a quadratic convex function as follows:
(
(
)2
)2
ch
ch
+ θ⋅ Pdis
(4)
Ci,P5 (t) = θ⋅ Pdis
i,HESS (t) − Pi,HESS (t)
i,PEV (t) − Pi,PEV (t)

(3d)

Eq. (3a) presents the complex behavior preference function of peer i,
where the parameter ai (t) > 0 is time-dependent and reflects the
behavior of peer i [14]. The second component Ci,P2 (t) in Eq. (3b) is the
utilization cost in the P2P trading for the traded powers of house i to be
physically executed through the community microgrid, where the
parameter β > 0 is a fixed rate and not time-dependent [15]. To prevent
strategic behavior and punish prosumers contributing the most to im­
ports, communities may impose additional fees such as the peak shaving
service fee shown in Eq. (3c). The parameter γ = 0.1 is the penalization
coefficient set by the community manager to the maximum component
of houses import shares [11]. The last element Ci,P4 (t) is the bilateral
trading cost with other peers based on the preference of buyers to the
types of energy sources, where di,j is the trading coefficient of the energy
trading between peer i and peer j for the purposes of the differentiation
of consumption preference [33].
In this study, the influences of battery degradation cost of the HESS
and PEV to the P2P energy trading are also considered. To simplify the
analysis, the battery degradation cost of the HESS or PEV of peer i at

ch
dis
ch
where Pdis
i,HESS (t), Pi,HESS (t), Pi,PEV (t), and Pi,PEV (t) present the power
charging and discharging of the HESS and PEV of peer i at time t
representatively, and the coefficient θ equals 0.0625 according to [34].
Therefore, the total P2P energy trading costs of each house with
other peers in the community can be summed up as follows,
⃦
⃦
⃦∑
⃦
⃦
⃦
Ci,P (t) =ai (t)P2i,tr (t) + bi (t)Pi,tr (t) + γ⃦ Pi,tr (t) ⃦
⃦ i∈N
⃦
i
∞
(
)2
∑
(5)
+
di,j Pi,j (t) + θ⋅ Pdis (t) − Pch (t)
j∈Ni

i,HESS

i,HESS

(
)2
ch
+ θ⋅ Pdis
i,PEV (t) − Pi,PEV (t)
where bi (t)≜̃
bi (t) + β.
It is noted that since each components of the total cost of P2P energy
trading Ci,P (t) is either quadratic or linear. Then, the functions Eq. (5) is
8

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 9. (continued).

9

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 9. (continued).

also convex.

2.3.2. Power balance in the P2P energy trading
The bilateral trading power balance of each pair in the P2P market is
shown by Eq. (9).

2.2.3. Total cost of the house
Regarding the above, the total cost of house i in the community is
shown by Eq. (6):
Ci (t) =Ci,G (t) + Ci,P (t) = QGb (t)Pi,Gb (t) − QGs (t)Pi,Gs (t) + ai (t)P2i,tr (t)
⃦
⃦
⃦∑
⃦
⃦
⃦
+ bi (t)Pi,tr (t) + γ⃦ Pi,tr (t) ⃦
⃦ i∈N
⃦
i
∞
(
)2
∑
dis
+
di,j Pi,j (t) + θ⋅ Pi,HESS (t) − Pch
i,HESS (t)
j∈Ni

(

ch
+ θ⋅ Pdis
i,PEV (t) − Pi,PEV (t)

Pi,j (t) + Pj,i (t) = 0

Pi,j (t) > 0 indicates peer i is a consumer and buys energy from peer j,
and Pi,j (t) < 0 indicates peer i is a prosumer and sells energy to peer j.
Loss of energy during transactions in the market is not considered in the
work.

(6)

2.3.3. Power balance considering energy trading with the main grid
For house i, the total power generated and bought must be equal to
the total power consumed and sold at the same time. This constraint can
be presented as follows:

)2

The total cost of the community C(t) is presented as follows:
C(t) =

m
∑
i=1

Ci (t)

dis
Pi,gen (t) + Pi,Gb (t) + Pi,tr (t) + Pdis
i,HESS (t) + Pi,PEV (t) − Pi,Gs (t) − Pi,Load (t)
ch
− Pch
i,HESS (t) − Pi,PEV (t) = 0

(7)

(10)

Denote Pi,gen (t) and Pi,Load (t) the power DERs generated by DERs and
the power appliances consumed by other home appliances respectively
by the house i at time t.

2.3. Constraints
2.3.1. Power limitation in the P2P energy trading
In the P2P energy market, the total power to be traded of peer i is
limited by its minimum and maximum power as modeled by Eq. (8).
max
Pmin
i,tr (t) ≤ Pi,tr (t) ≤ Pi,tr (t)

(9)

3. Proposed method

(8)

In this part, both the mode separation optimal battery charging and
discharging strategy for HESS and PEV and the distributed parallel
ADMM algorithm for P2P energy trading are taken into account in the
community framework to minimize the electricity cost of each house
and the total cost of the community.

min
where Pmax
i,tr (t) and Pi,tr (t) are the upper and lower limitation of the total
power to be traded of peer i at time t, respectively.

10

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 10. Energy utilization details of each peer in the community in Case 2, (a) energy utilization details of Prosumer 1, (b) energy utilization details of Prosumer 2,
(c) energy utilization details of Prosumer 3, (d) energy utilization details of Consumer 1, (e) energy utilization details of Consumer 2, (f) energy utilization details of
Consumer 3, (g) energy utilization details of the PEV of Prosumer 1, (h) energy utilization details of the PEV of Consumer 1.

3.1. Battery charging and discharging strategy

In this study, the strategy is improved based on the community
framework shown in Fig. 2. Since the types of each house in the com­
munity are different, four refined battery charging and discharging
strategies are suitable for each house that deployed with HESS or PEV in
the home.

To minimize the electricity costs and reduce the battery charging and
discharging costs of HESS and PEV, an optimal charging and discharging
strategy based on the operation mode separation approach was pro­
posed in our previous work. The detailed modeling and strategy of the
HESS and PEV can be seen from the reference [35].
11

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 10. (continued).

3.1.1. Strategy for Prosumer 1
The model of Prosumer 1 is the same as the layout of the house in the
reference [35]. Specifically, Prosumer 1 has the same smart home ar­
chitecture as in the reference [35], deploying photovoltaic panels, HESS,
PEV, and several household appliances as common loads.
Since both HESS and PEV are equipped in the home of Prosumer 1,
the battery charging and discharging strategy for Prosumer 1 is similar
to the strategy in the reference [35]. The refined point occurred after
calculating the maximum allowable charging and discharging electricity
of HESS and PEV under battery capacity constraints.

Unlike step 1 in situation 1 and step 2 in situation 2 in the reference
[35], the total power to be traded by Prosumer 1 is determined by the
power of generation and consumption of Prosumer 1, which is presented
as follows:
P1(t) = Pload (t) − Pgen (t)

(11)

The steps of calculating the interaction power between the house and
the main grid PG (t) in two situations are also deleted in the strategy
optimization part and removed to the end of our overall optimization
algorithm. The refined strategy for the batteries of HESS and PEV in the
12

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 11. Energy utilization details of each peer in the community in Case 2, (a) energy utilization details of Prosumer 1, (b) energy utilization details of Prosumer 2,
(c) energy utilization details of Prosumer 3, (d) energy utilization details of Consumer 1, (e) energy utilization details of Consumer 2, (f) energy utilization details of
Consumer 3, (g) energy utilization details of the PEV of Prosumer 1, (h) energy utilization details of the PEV of Consumer 1.

house of Prosumer 1 is shown in Fig. 4.

3.1.3. Strategy for Consumer 1
On the contrary, only PEV is combined and no HESS is deployed in
the home of Consumer 1. For a similar reason, the battery charging and
discharging strategy for the PEV of Consumer 1 also has to be refined as
follows.
Firstly, since Consumer 1 is not equipped with any DER generator, it
has no ability to conduct energy generation. The total power to be traded
without considering HESS and PEV in the home grid is different from all

3.1.2. Strategy for Prosumer 2
Different from Prosumer 1, Prosumer 2 only installs a large capacity
HESS in the home and no PEV is used. As a result, no operation of PEV
needs to be considered in the process of the battery charging and dis­
charging strategy. Thus, the strategy for the HESS of Prosumer 2 has to
be rectified and concentrated.
13

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 11. (continued).

prosumers above, which is presented in Eq. (12).
P1(t) = − Pload (t)

consumer home equipped with HESS. Its total traded power can be
modeled in the format of Consumer 1. Its battery charging and dis­
charging strategy is the same as the operation of Prosumer 2.

(12)

Secondly, the operation mode separation approach proposed in our
previous work [35] is also used to minimize the cost of PEV of Consumer
1.
Lastly, the operation about HESS in the full battery charging and
discharging strategy of Prosumer 1 is deleted.

3.2. Alternating direction multiplier method
After calculating the optimal power to be charged and discharged of
HESS and PEV of each house, a distributed parallel approach based on
the ADMM algorithm is proposed to calculate the energy and price to be
traded between each pair in the P2P energy market.
To minimize the total P2P energy trading costs of each house with

3.1.4. Strategy for Consumer 2
Similar to the partial of Prosumer 2 and Consumer 1, Consumer 2 is a
14

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 12. Energy utilization details of each peer in the community in Case 2, (a) energy utilization details of Prosumer 1, (b) energy utilization details of Prosumer 2,
(c) energy utilization details of Prosumer 3, (d) energy utilization details of Consumer 1, (e) energy utilization details of Consumer 2, (f) energy utilization details of
Consumer 3, (g) energy utilization details of the PEV of Prosumer 1, (h) energy utilization details of the HESS of Prosumer 1, (i) energy utilization details of the HESS
of Prosumer 2, (j) energy utilization details of the PEV of Consumer 1, (k) energy utilization details of the HESS of Consumer 2.

15

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 12. (continued).

other peers in the community shown in Eq. (5), the augmented
Lagrangian of Ci,P (t) is defined as follows:

between each pair of prosumers and consumers that obtained the energy
trading contract in the community microgrid. The parameter ρ is the
penal factor of the power balance constraints.
Denote ni the total amount of trading neighbors of house i. Pi (t) ∈
ℝni (t) is the vector of all the power to be traded between house i and other
neighbors at time t as in Eq. (14):
[
]
Pi (t) = Pi,1 (t) … Pi,ni (t)
(14)

m
m ∑
∑
) ∑
(
(
L Pi,j (t) , λi,j (t) =
Ci,P (t) +
λi,j (t) Pi,j (t)
i=1

i=1 j∈Ni

⃦2
⃦
m
) ρ⃦
)⃦
⃦
⃦ ∑ ∑(
+ Pj,i (t) + ⃦
Pi,j (t) + Pj,i (t) ⃦
⃦
2⃦ i=1 j∈N
i

(13)

2

Then the variable Pi (t) for each house i are calculated in parallel on
every iteration k + 1 by Eq. (15):

where λi,j (t) are the Lagrange multipliers associated with the power
balance constraint (9), which are also seen as the energy trading prices
16

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 12. (continued).

)
(
Pi (t)k+1 ≜argminL Pi,j (t) , λi,j (t)

power of each house Pk+1 is sent to the P2PSO, respectively. Next, the
P2PSO updates the power price by Eq. (16). Then, the stopping criteria
for the iterative process is checked. If it is convergent, the process ends.
If not, P2PSO sends the updated price λ to each house and updates the
number of iteration k = k + 1 and start a new iteration.

(15)

Next, the variable λ(t) is computed by Eq. (16):
λ(t)k+1 = λ(t)k + ρ*

m ∑
∑
(
i=1 j∈Ni

Pi,j (t) + Pj,i (t)

)

(16)

where λ(t) is the vector of the energy trading prices between each house i
and their neighbors at time t as follows:
⎡
⎤
λ1,1 (t) ⋯ λ1,n1 (t)
⎦
⋱
⋮
λ(t) = ⎣ ⋮
(17)
λm,1 (t) ⋯ λm,nm (t)

3.3. Overall optimization algorithm
As shown above, a residential community microgrid framework with
extremely high scalability is designed in this study. In addition, a novel
distributed parallel ADMM algorithm is proposed combined with the
battery charging and discharging strategies of PEV and HESS. As a result,
the total operation process of the overall optimization algorithm can be
summarized as the flowchart in Fig. 6.
Specifically, every house in the community microgrid reads the realtime price and calculates its initial load and DER generation first. Sec­
ondly, data about the parameters of HESS or PEV of the houses that are
equipped with coordinating appliances are recognized and initialized by
each house. Set the time stamp t equals to 1. Then, the iterations begin.
Firstly, the total charging and discharging prices of each HESS and PEV
in each house are calculated. Then, the value of time slot n of each PEV is
computed by the obtained discharging price of PEV coordinately. Next,
the optimal power and capacity of each HESS and PEV can be obtained

Finally, denote the parameter ε the feasibility tolerance, which is set
to be 10− 4 in this work. The convergence criteria for the iterative process
of the P2P energy trading above is shown in Eq. (18).
⃦
⃦
⃦
k+1
k⃦
(18)
⃦λ(t) − λ(t) ⃦ ≤ ε
2

The flowchart of the proposed distributed ADMM optimization al­
gorithm is summarized in Fig. 5. First, the values of penalty parameter ρ
and feasibility tolerance ε are chose, and the value of the matrix λ is
initialized. Next, set the number of iteration k = 0. Then, the traded
power of each house is updated by Eq. (15). Then, the updated traded
17

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 13. Energy utilization details of each peer in the community in Case 4, (a) energy utilization details of Prosumer 1, (b) energy utilization details of Prosumer 2,
(c) energy utilization details of Prosumer 3, (d) energy utilization details of Consumer 1, (e) energy utilization details of Consumer 2, (f) energy utilization details of
Consumer 3, (g) energy utilization details of the PEV of Prosumer 1, (h) energy utilization details of the HESS of Prosumer 1, (i) energy utilization details of the HESS
of Prosumer 2, (j) energy utilization details of the PEV of Consumer 1, (k) energy utilization details of the HESS of Consumer 2.

by the battery charging and discharging strategy considering the
degradation cost of the batteries. Combine the obtained optimal values
of each HESS and PEV into the accordingly cost function and trading
constraints of each house. The overall cost function of each house will be
optimized by the parallel ADMM in the iteration. Then, the convergence
criteria for the iterative process are checked. If t < T, a new iteration will
start, or else, the electricity cost of each house and the total cost of the
community will be calculated based on the optimal solution obtained
above in 24 h.

As listed in Table 2, the preference parameters ai and bi of each house
are taken based on the reference [15]. The maximum and minimum
capacity of HESS and PEV in the house of Prosumer 1 are taken from our
previous work [35]. The capacities of HESSs and PEVs in other houses
are initialized randomly based on the values of HESS and PEV of Pro­
sumer 1. Table 3 shows common parameters for HESSs and PEVs used in
the community microgrid, which are also obtained from our previous
work [35], which were taken from [10,36], respectively. In this paper,
the arrival and departure times of PEVs are assumed to be 18:30 and
7:30, which are in a certain time period of traffic during the evening rush
hour [35].
Fig. 7 presents the real-time purchase and sale prices of the main grid
from the Australian Energy Market Operator [38]. The sale price of the
main grid is set to be 2.5 Cents. Fig. 8 shows the generation data of three
prosumers and the load data of all houses in the community microgrid
respectively. Among them, the PV generation data of Prosumer 1 is
taken from [35], which was converted from the PV generation data of
the European Network of Transmission System Operators to meet the
residence PV generation [37], and the wind generation data of Prosumer
2 and Prosumer 3 are taken from [39]. The consumption data of Fig. 8(b)

4. Case studies
4.1. Data collection
A community microgrid consisting of 6 houses is considered in the
study. Table 1 shows the list of the components deployed in each house.
This list mainly includes two types of users (prosumers and consumers),
two types of DERs (solar panels and wind turbines), electric vehicles,
and household energy storage batteries with different capacities and
parameters.
18

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 13. (continued).

are taken from [35,39] respectively.
All simulations are conducted on a personal computer equipped with
Intel Core i3-4130 CPU clocked at 3.40GHz and 16 GB of RAM, running
on Windows 10 64bit education system. Python v.3.9.12 with CVXPY
v.1.2.1 is used as the programming and solving platform.

compare the results of the P2P market with the pool-based market of the
main grid. Case 1 studies the Peer-to-Grid (P2G) mode of the commu­
nity, which refers to the energy trading of the community only through
the pool-based market of the main grid. Then, in Case 2, P2P energy
trading is developed in the community microgrid. The energy trans­
actions between each household and the main grid take a back seat to
prevent the energy produced in the microgrid from being insufficient for
community consumption. The influence of peak shaving service on the
energy trading of all the houses in the community is studied in Case 3. To
evaluate the influence of HESS installation on the houses in the

4.2. Case study
Five scenarios are studied in our work to study the effectiveness of
the proposed distributed ADMM algorithm for P2P energy trading and
19

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 13. (continued).

community, Case 4 introduces HESS into the study, and the degradation
cost is also considered in the battery charging and discharging strategy
of HESS and PEV. Case 5, the last scenario, is set as a control group of
Case 4 that does not consider degradation costs to evaluate the impact of
degradation costs on the strategy and the overall optimization algo­
rithm. A summary of case studies details and the total cost of the com­
munity is presented in Table 4.

no HESS is installed in any peers of the community. Each house in the
community can only trade electricity with the main grid. Thus, only the
battery charging and discharging strategy is used in our algorithm to
calculate the charging and discharging power of the two PEVs.
Fig. 9 shows the energy trading details of each house in Case 1
considering the utilization of PEVs. From Fig. 9, we can see that there is
a power balance in each house of the community, i.e., the total power
generated and bought equals the total power consumed and sold.
It is noted that though there are only two types of DERs, three pro­
sumers in Case 1 present three conditions of prosumers respectively, i.e.,

4.2.1. Case 1: Peer-to-Grid mode
In Case 1, only Prosumer 1 and Consumer 1 equipped with PEVs, and
20

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

Fig. 13. (continued).
Table 5
Summary of the total cost of each house and the total cost of the community in different cases.
Items

Case 1 (cents)

Case 2 (cents)

Case 3 (cents)

Case 4 (cents)

Case 4_s (cents)

Case 5 (cents)

Prosumer 1
Prosumer 2
Prosumer 3
Consumer 1
Consumer 2
Consumer 3
Total cost

404.29
− 121.65
− 662.5
1929.26
3445.85
1982.70
6977.95

368.63
− 121.65
− 1100.49
947.88
3007.62
1982.70
5084.69

369.18
− 121.30
− 1080.12
899.32
2999.62
1982.70
5049.41

338.74
− 111.85
− 1086.60
898.85
2984.55
1982.70
5006.38

290.20
− 121.30
− 1086.60
880.34
2965.98
1982.70
4911.32

292.72
− 121.49
− 1087.55
877.61
2986.33
1982.70
4930.31

insufficiency type, matching type, and surplus type.

trading failure might be the mismatch and dissatisfaction of the esti­
mated energy prices between buyers and sellers, which are influenced by
the parameters of preference behavior of each house (ai and bi ). In other
words, when the price at which the deal concluded is too high for buyers
or too low for sellers, the buyer or seller tends to cancel the deal to avoid
losses.
Different from Case 1, Prosumer 1 and Prosumer 3 sell their surplus
energy to the consumers of the community first instead of the main grid.
It is noted that when the total electricity of prosumers to be sold is more
than the total energy of consumers’ needs to buy, the exceeded amount
of energy will be sold to the main grid too, as shown in the condition of
12:00 in Fig. 10(c).

4.2.2. Case 2: Peer-to-Peer mode
Case 2 shares a similarity to Case 1 that only Prosumer 1 and Con­
sumer 1 are equipped with PEVs, while HESS is not installed in any peers
of the community. However, each peer in the community trades energy
with other peers first then with the main grid. Thus, the battery charging
and discharging strategy is used to compute the charging and dis­
charging power of the two PEVs. The proposed ADMM algorithm is also
adopted to evaluate the power and price to be traded between each pair
in the P2P energy market.
Fig. 10 shows the energy trading details of each house in Case 2
considering the utilization of PEVs of Prosumer 1 and Consumer 1.
Despite the power balance of each house in the community, the elec­
tricity utilization details of Prosumer 2 and Consumer 3 are also same as
the conditions in Case 1, which means Prosumer 2 and Consumer 3 don’t
participate in the P2P energy trading in the community. The reasons for

4.2.3. Case 3: Peer-to-Peer mode with peak shaving service
In this case, the energy trading mode and the parameters used are the
same as in Case 2 while the peak shaving service fee is considered in the
total cost function. As shown in Fig. 11(b) and (d), Prosumer 2 joins in
21

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

the P2P energy trading in the community when the peak shaving fee is
imposed. Unlike the previous case, since the fee is to encourage the
energy exchange inside the community and reduce the energy require­
ment from the main grid, this gives Prosumer 2 a chance to sell its
surplus energy to Consumer 1 partly. Prosumer 3 also increases its en­
ergy to be sold to others in the community. However, Consumer 3 does
not participate in the P2P energy trading in the community because of
high preference parameters. As a result, the total cost of the community
is reduced along with the reduction of the cost of the houses.

In summary, the findings and insights of this study are listed as
follows:
• From the comparison of Case 1 and the other three cases, we can find
P2P energy trading in the community microgrid can reduce the total
costs of each house and the community.
• The same results of Consumer 3 in all cases show that if the prefer­
ence parameters of users are far away from other peers, it may affect
the final price and energy of the transaction in the P2P energy
market.
• In the P2P energy market of the community, prosumers have greater
advantages in self-production and sales than consumers, and can get
more benefits.
• By comparing the results of Prosumer 2 and Prosumer 3, it is depicted
that under appropriate optimization strategies, the more energy
prosumers produce, the more profits can be obtained.
• As the result of Prosumer 2 in Case 3 shows, the inclination of P2P
energy trading in the community can be encouraged by imposing a
penalty fee such as peak shaving service fee to reduce the reliance on
the main grid.
• From the examples of Case 4, it is shown that no matter what kind of
user, they can optimize the electric energy demand by adding
household energy storage equipment of appropriate capacity to
reduce costs or increase profits.
• From the result of Consumer 1 in Case 4, PEV can also temporarily
serve as a household energy storage device, but due to time con­
straints, the charging time of PEV is usually concentrated at night,
and the overall efficiency is usually slightly lower than that of
household batteries.
• By comparing the results of Prosumer 1 and Prosumer 3 in Case 4 and
Case 5, it is depicted that the degradation cost of the battery affects
the charging and discharging timing of PEV and HESS and subse­
quently affects the amount of power in the P2P energy transactions.
• The results of Consumer 2 in Case 5 show a certain impact of the
degradation cost of the battery in the optimization algorithm, which
may lead to decision-making errors, thereby increasing the overall
power consumption cost of the microgrid.

4.2.4. Case 4: Peer-to-Peer mode combined HESS
In this case, HESSs are deployed into the home of Prosumer 1, Pro­
sumer 2, and Consumer 2. Other conditions are the same as the condi­
tions in Case 3. The full framework of the community microgrid can be
seen in Fig. 2. Thus the process of the battery charging and discharging
strategy of PEVs and HESSs are refined from the flowchart of Fig. 4. The
parameters of the strategy and ADMM are also the same as the param­
eters in Case 3.
From the same results of electricity utilization details shown in
Fig. 12(b) and (f), Prosumer 2 sells partial energy to Consumer 1, but
Consumer 3 still does not participate in the P2P energy trading in the
community. In addition, the installation of HESS has an influence on the
supply of energy to be traded in the market, such as the conditions at
9:00–11:00 of Prosumer 1 in Fig. 12(a). On the other hand, as shown in
Fig. 12(a) and Fig. 12(e), the discharging process of HESSs at
17:00–18:00 of Prosumer 1 and Consumer 2 also reduces the electricity
to be bought from the main grid, which has almost the highest purchase
price of the electricity at these periods.
4.2.5. Case5: Peer-to-Peer mode combined HESS and without degradation
cost
Fig. 13 shows the details of the energy trading of each house in the
community in Case 5. In this case, the framework and communication
structure between all prosumers and all consumers are the same as those
in Case 4. All the parameters of ADMM are the same as the parameters in
the previous cases. The process of the battery charging and discharging
strategy of PEVs and HESS in each house is also same as the process in
Case 4 except for the consideration of the degradation cost of the bat­
teries of PEVs and HESSs in the community.
Similar to other cases, all the energy trading details of each house are
power-balanced, including the utilization of PEVs and HESSs. From
Fig. 13(b), Prosumer 2 sells energy to Consumer 1 at 17:00, 19:00 and
20:00 like in Case 3 and Case 4. However, at 23:00, Consumer 1 reduces
the energy demand because of the different charging process. Consumer
3 also do not trade energy with other houses successfully, which is the
same as the conditions in the previous cases. However, as shown in
Fig. 13(k), the charging and discharging process of the HESS in the home
of Consumer 2 does not work well when ignoring the degradation cost of
batteries. This not only reduces the utilization efficiency of the HESS but
also increases the total cost of Consumer 2.

There are also some limitations, which are listed as follows:
• Firstly, the parameters of HESSs and PEVs are assumed to be fixed in
this study, including the arrival and departure times of PEVs. How­
ever, these parameters are changing, and PEVs may not follow this
timetable.
• Secondly, to guarantee the convex of the cost function of each house,
the degradation cost of batteries follows the quadratic model, which
does not consider the investment cost of batteries and may affect the
results of simulations.
• Thirdly, the selling price of energy of the main grid is assumed to be
2.5 Cents all day. However, this selling price is often related to the
financial incentives proposed by utilities.
• Finally, to simplify the communication model of the mixed energy
market in the community microgrid, all the houses are divided into
two groups and form a bipartite mixed electricity market. Thus, the
fully communicated P2P energy trading can be taken into account in
future simulations.

4.2.6. Summary
Table 5 shows the total cost of each house and the total cost of the
community in all five cases and the costs of Case 4 subtracting the
degradation cost. From the table, all the houses who participate the P2P
energy trading successfully, no matter prosumers or consumers, reduce
the total costs. As shown in the second row of Table 5, Prosumer 2 also
decreases its total cost in the last three cases due to the implementation
of peak shaving service fee and the deployment of HESS. The condition
of Consumer 3 has no change in all five cases since it has the highest
preference parameters and affects the willingness to participate the P2P
energy trading.
It is noted that the degradation cost of the batteries of HESS and PEVs
has an influence on the process choices of the battery charging and
discharging strategy, which can be seen in the last two columns of
Table 5, especially in the case of Consumer 1 and Consumer 2.

5. Conclusions
To reduce the DERs penetration in the main grid and maximize the
profit of the end-users, a novel distributed parallel ADMM optimization
approach associated with the optimal storage strategy has been pro­
posed for P2P energy trading in a scalable community microgrid,
considering the degradation cost of batteries of HESSs and PEVs in the
community. The proposed P2P energy trading market clearing mecha­
nism considers a variety of realistic factors such as household privacy,
22

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651

user preferences, peak shaving services, community power grid-related
usage fees, point-to-point bilateral transaction weights, and battery
degradation costs. The designed comparative case studies depict the
impact of the types of users, grid transaction methods, peak shaving fee,
energy storage equipment, and battery degradation costs on P2P energy
trading. The results show a significant reduction in both the cost of each
house and the total cost of the community when developing the P2P
energy trading in the community. The comparison between peers and
cases also presents that prosumers have greater advantages than con­
sumers in P2P electricity transactions if the participants do not have
special preferences for energy trading. In addition, by imposing a pen­
alty fee such as a peak shaving service fee, the inclination of energy
trading of each house can be affected, which reduces the reliance on the
main grid. The deployment of home energy storage devices including
HESSs and PEVs can also distribute and utilize energy more efficiently in
the P2P market.
In the future, the study can be improved from the following three
aspects. Firstly, additional factors which influence the P2P energy
trading in the local energy market can be investigated such as trade
weights based on the types of energy sources and the efficiency of the
storage systems can be investigated in the P2P energy trading. Secondly,
the performance of different methods used in peer-to-peer energy
trading can be evaluated and compared including the ADMM-based
approach, reinforcement learning, and heuristic algorithms, etc.
Thirdly, the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed ADMM algo­
rithm can be analyzed and evaluated by real-time testing such as the
Hardware-In-the-Loop method. In addition, the full communication
structure as well as power flow constraints in the P2P energy market can
also be studied in the simulations of future work.

[5] H. Hu, N. Xie, D. Fang, X. Zhang, The role of renewable energy consumption and
commercial services trade in carbon dioxide reduction: evidence from 25
developing countries, Appl. Energy 211 (August 2017) (2018) 1229–1244, https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2017.12.019.
[6] International Energy Agency (IEA), Approximately 100 million households rely on
rooftop solar PV by 2030, Accessed: Nov. 26, 2023. [Online]. Available: https
://www.iea.org/reports/approximately-100-million-households-rely-on-rooftop
-solar-pv-by-2030.
[7] X. Yan, Y. Ozturk, Z. Hu, Y. Song, A review on price-driven residential demand
response, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 96 (April 2017) (Nov. 2018) 411–419,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2018.08.003.
[8] M. Beaudin, H. Zareipour, Home energy management systems: a review of
modelling and complexity, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 45 (August) (2015)
318–335, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2015.01.046.
[9] Y. Parag, B.K. Sovacool, Electricity market design for the prosumer era, Nat. Energy
1 (4) (2016), https://doi.org/10.1038/NENERGY.2016.32.
[10] A. Paudel, L. P. M. I. M. I. Sampath, J. Yang, H.B. Gooi, G.S. Member, L. P. M. I. M.
I. Sampath, Peer-to-peer energy trading in smart grid considering power losses and
network fees, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 11 (6) (2020) 4727–4737, https://doi.org/
10.1109/TSG.2020.2997956.
[11] F. Moret, P. Pinson, Energy collectives: a community and fairness based approach
to future electricity markets, IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 34 (5) (2019) 3994–4004,
https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2018.2808961.
[12] Y. Zahraoui, I. Alhamrouni, S. Mekhilef, M.R. Basir Khan, B.P. Hayes, M. Ahmed,
A novel approach for sizing battery storage system for enhancing resilience ability
of a microgrid, Int. Trans. Electr. Energy Syst. 31 (12) (2021), https://doi.org/
10.1002/2050-7038.13142.
[13] Y. Zahraoui, et al., Self-healing strategy to enhance microgrid resilience during
faults occurrence, Int. Trans. Electr. Energy Syst. 31 (12) (2021), https://doi.org/
10.1002/2050-7038.13232.
[14] D.H. Nguyen, Optimal solution analysis and decentralized mechanisms for peer-topeer energy markets, IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 36 (2) (2021) 1470–1481, https://
doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2020.3021474.
[15] D.H. Nguyen, T. Narikiyo, M. Kawanishi, Optimal demand response and real-time
pricing by a sequential distributed consensus-based ADMM approach, IEEE Trans.
Smart Grid 9 (5) (2018) 4964–4974, https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2017.2676179.
[16] Y. Zahraoui, T. Korõtko, A. Rosin, H. Agabus, Market mechanisms and trading in
microgrid local electricity markets: a comprehensive review, Energies 16 (5)
(2023) 1–52, https://doi.org/10.3390/en16052145.
[17] M. Mehdinejad, H. Shayanfar, B. Mohammadi-Ivatloo, Decentralized blockchainbased peer-to-peer energy-backed token trading for active prosumers, Energy 244
(2022) 122713, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2021.122713.
[18] J. Dong, C. Song, S. Liu, H. Yin, H. Zheng, Y. Li, Decentralized peer-to-peer energy
trading strategy in energy blockchain environment: a game-theoretic approach,
Appl. Energy 325 (August) (2022) 119852, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
apenergy.2022.119852.
[19] B.P. Hayes, S. Thakur, J.G. Breslin, Co-simulation of electricity distribution
networks and peer to peer energy trading platforms, Int. J. Electr. Power Energy
Syst. 115 (July 2019) (2020) 105419, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
ijepes.2019.105419.
[20] Y. Zahraoui, T. Korotko, A. Rosin, T.E.K. Zidane, S. Mekhilef, A real-time
simulation for P2P energy trading using a distributed algorithm, IEEE Access 12
(January) (2024) 44135–44146, https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2024.3369899.
[21] M. Khorasany, Y. Mishra, B. Babaki, G. Ledwich, Enhancing scalability of peer-topeer energy markets using adaptive segmentation method, J. Mod. Power Syst.
Clean Energy 7 (4) (2019) 791–801, https://doi.org/10.1007/s40565-019-0510-0.
[22] E.A. Soto, L.B. Bosman, E. Wollega, W.D. Leon-Salas, Peer-to-peer energy trading: a
review of the literature, Appl. Energy 283 (June 2020) (2021) 116268, https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.116268.
[23] J. Yang, W. Xu, K. Ma, C. Li, A three-stage multi-energy trading strategy based on
P2P trading mode, IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy 14 (1) (2023) 233–241, https://doi.
org/10.1109/TSTE.2022.3208369.
[24] H. Sahebi, M. Khodoomi, M. Seif, M.S. Pishvaee, T. Hanne, The benefits of peer-topeer renewable energy trading and battery storage backup for local grid, J. Energy
Storage 63 (March) (2023) 106970, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2023.106970.
[25] S. Faria, et al., Consumer-centric electricity markets: a comprehensive review on
user preferences and key performance indicators, Electr. Pow. Syst. Res. 210
(November 2021) (2022), https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2022.108088.
[26] Z. Zheng, Z. Sun, J. Pan, X. Luo, An integrated smart home energy management
model based on a pyramid taxonomy for residential houses with photovoltaicbattery systems, Appl. Energy 298 (May) (2021) 117159, https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.apenergy.2021.117159.
[27] A. Aminlou, B. Mohammadi-Ivatloo, K. Zare, R. Razzaghi, A. Anvari-Moghaddam,
Activating demand side flexibility market in a fully decentralized P2P transactive
energy trading framework using ADMM algorithm, Sustain. Cities Soc. 100
(October 2023) (2024) 105021, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scs.2023.105021.
[28] J. Hussain, et al., Microgrid and participant-centric residential demand response
program and photovoltaic with battery-storage P2P energy trading for optimum
energy management using MDULPS and PPBSD-ADMM, J. Energy Storage 84 (PB)
(2024) 110881, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.110881.
[29] J. Hussain, et al., Optimization of social welfare in P2P community microgrid with
efficient decentralized energy management and communication-efficient power
trading, J. Energy Storage 81 (December 2023) (2024) 110458, https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.est.2024.110458.
[30] Y. Zahraoui, T. Korotko, A. Rosin, T.E.K. Zidane, H. Agabus, S. Mekhilef,
A competitive framework for the participation of multi-microgrids in the

CRediT authorship contribution statement
Binghui Han: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft,
Validation, Methodology, Investigation, Funding acquisition, Formal
analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. Younes Zahraoui: Writing –
review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Supervision,
Software, Methodology. Marizan Mubin: Supervision, Project admin­
istration. Saad Mekhilef: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original
draft, Supervision, Project administration. Tarmo Korõtko: Writing –
review & editing, Writing – original draft. Obaid Alshammari: Re­
sources, Project administration, Methodology, Investigation.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence
the work reported in this paper.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.
References
[1] B. Han, Y. Zahraoui, M. Mubin, S. Mekhilef, M. Seyedmahmoudian, A. Stojcevski,
Home energy management systems: a review of the concept, architecture, and
scheduling strategies, IEEE Access 11 (December 2022) (2023) 19999–20025,
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3248502.
[2] T. Ahmed, S. Mekhilef, R. Shah, N. Mithulananthan, M. Seyedmahmoudian,
B. Horan, ASEAN power grid: a secure transmission infrastructure for clean and
sustainable energy for South-East Asia, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 67 (2017)
1420–1435, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2016.09.055.
[3] M. Dreidy, H. Mokhlis, S. Mekhilef, Inertia response and frequency control
techniques for renewable energy sources: a review, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 69
(July 2016) (2017) 144–155, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2016.11.170.
[4] L. Olatomiwa, S. Mekhilef, M.S. Ismail, M. Moghavvemi, Energy management
strategies in hybrid renewable energy systems: a review, Renew. Sustain. Energy
Rev. 62 (2016) 821–835, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2016.05.040.

23

B. Han et al.

Journal of Energy Storage 96 (2024) 112651
[35] B. Han, Y. Zahraoui, M. Mubin, S. Mekhilef, M. Seyedmahmoudian, A. Stojcevski,
Optimal strategy for comfort-based home energy management system considering
impact of battery degradation cost model, Mathematics 11 (6) (2023) 1333,
https://doi.org/10.3390/math11061333.
[36] A.C. Duman, H.S. Erden, Ö. Gönül, Ö. Güler, A home energy management system
with an integrated smart thermostat for demand response in smart grids, Sustain.
Cities Soc. 65 (August 2020) (2021), https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scs.2020.102639.
[37] X. Hou, J. Wang, T. Huang, T. Wang, P. Wang, Smart home energy management
optimization method considering energy storage and electric vehicle, IEEE Access
7 (2019) 144010–144020, https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2944878.
[38] The Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO), Metadata [Online]. Available:
https://aemo.com.au/.
[39] A. Jiang, H. Yuan, D. Li, A two-stage optimization approach on the decisions for
prosumers and consumers within a community in the peer-to-peer energy sharing
trading, Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 125 (September 2020) (2021) 106527,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2020.106527.

community energy trading market: a case study, IEEE Access 12 (April) (2024)
68232–68248, https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2024.3399168.
[31] H. Zhang, D. Yue, C. Dou, X. Xie, K. Li, G.P. Hancke, Resilient optimal defensive
strategy of TSK fuzzy-model-based microgrids’ system via a novel reinforcement
learning approach, IEEE Trans. Neural Networks Learn. Syst. 34 (4) (2023)
1921–1931, https://doi.org/10.1109/TNNLS.2021.3105668.
[32] A. Yaldız, T. Gökçek, İ. Şengör, O. Erdinç, Optimal sizing and economic analysis of
photovoltaic distributed generation with battery energy storage system considering
peer-to-peer energy trading, Sustain. Energy, Grids Networks 28 (2021), https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.segan.2021.100540.
[33] E. Sorin, L. Bobo, P. Pinson, Consensus-based approach to peer-to-peer electricity
markets with product differentiation, IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 34 (2) (2019)
994–1004, https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2018.2872880.
[34] Y. Liu, et al., Distributed robust energy management of a multimicrogrid system in
the real-time energy market, IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy 10 (1) (2019) 396–406,
https://doi.org/10.1109/TSTE.2017.2779827.

24

