sustainability

Article

Optimization of Peer-to-Peer Power Trading in a
Microgrid with Distributed PV and Battery Energy
Storage Systems
Hui Huang, Shilin Nie *, Jin Lin, Yuanyuan Wang and Jun Dong

North China Electric Power University, Department of Economic Management, Beijing 102206, China;
hh@ncepu.edu.cn (H.H.); 120192206099@ncepu.edu.cn (J.L.); 120192206002@ncepu.edu.cn (Y.W.);
dongjun@ncepu.edu.cn (J.D.)
* Correspondence: 1182206131@ncepu.edu.cn



Received: 26 December 2019; Accepted: 17 January 2020; Published: 27 January 2020 

Abstract: Integrating distributed generation (DG) into the main grid is a challenge for the safety and
stability of the grid. The application of peer-to-peer (P2P) technology in microgrids with distributed
generation is expected to facilitate increased self-consumption of distributed and renewable energy,
and the rise of prosumers’ monetary benefits. A P2P energy trading model in microgrids with
photovoltaic (PV) distributed generation and battery energy storage systems (BESSs) is proposed
in this paper. We additionally designed a P2P electricity trading mechanism based on coalition
game theory. A simulation framework of this model is presented which assumed a local community
with 30 households under comprehensive constraints encompassing a customer load profile, PV
system, BESSs, market signals including feed-in tariffs, and retail prices. Firstly, individual customers
can post orders (purchasing orders or selling orders) and exchange information in a P2P energy
trading market. Secondly, the microgrid operator can validate the orders based on how to achieve
the minimum overall energy consumption in microgrids and set reasonable real-time purchasing
and selling prices for P2P energy transactions. Thirdly, the orders can be automatically conducted
and completed at the designed optimal price. This mechanism can be a practical solution motivating
individual customers to participate in P2P electricity trading, assist with electricity cost reduction,
benefit from electricity supply increases, and help the grid operators to make the most economically
and socially friendly decisions.

Keywords: photovoltaic distributed generation; battery energy storage systems (BESSs); peer-to-peer
power trading; microgrid; game theory

1. Introduction

Deterioration of the global environment and the depletion of fossil fuel energy has led to growing
attention being focused on distributed and renewable forms of generation, like solar energy and
wind power. Within a global context of rapid development of solar photovoltaic (PV), Australia
has the leading position in the penetration of PV panels for residential users [1]. Globally, due
to the shift of energy supply technology and patterns, energy markets are also undergoing a shift
toward a decentralized and digital economy, while peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading for distributed
generation (DG) is finding its way into the energy sector. The application of P2P makes it possible
for individual consumers to become prosumers and to share their excess energy with neighbors [2–4].
They can achieve a win–win situation by looking for a reasonable trading price and by making a
deal in a seamless way [5,6]. P2P energy trading empowers customers to trade electricity at a P2P
marginal price that is cheaper than the time of use (TOU) price and higher than feed-in tariffs (FIT),

Sustainability 2020, 12, 923; doi:10.3390/su12030923 www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 2 of 20

respectively, which provides attractive savings for buyers and profit for sellers. In particular, it will
support local consumption of distributed energy while reducing fossil energy consumption and carbon
dioxide emissions.

In 2017, the Chinese government issued a guideline named A Pilot Approach to Facilitate the
Construction of the Grid-Connected Microgrid [7]. Its conclusion can be summarized into the following
four statements: (1) Generally, the maximum annual exchange capacity between a microgrid and the
main grid is 50% of the total amount of annual electricity consumption in microgrids. (2) The microgrid
operator (or associated agency) is responsible for the operation and maintenance management of the
microgrid, the internal and external power balance, and electricity exchanges. (3) It is important to
encourage the establishment of a price system for self-negotiation between any two parties where at
least one uses a microgrid, as well as a trading mechanism for energy markets that covers various
energy resources like cold energy, hot energy, and electricity. (4) Complying with market rule, the
microgrid operator needs to take charge of electricity exchanges and the corresponding transmission
and distribution costs. As a result, P2P as a new mechanism allows energy from one prosumer to be
directly sold to another prosumer within the network at a negotiated price without any influence of a
provincial transaction center. At the same time, the network served as a whole can sign a contract with
the provincial transaction center for any external generation that is produced in the wholesale market.
The microgrid operator is in charge of maintaining the distributed energy balance and managing
consumption rather than the main grid operators, whose job it is to check the exchange capacity
of the also controllable tie line. In addition, pressure to approve intermediaries’ cost can be eased
by including distribution costs within the microgrid into P2P electricity prices. Hence, P2P trading
provides much promise both for academic circles and for the energy ecosystem.

The state-of-the-art literature relating to P2P trading in the energy sector is discussed in this paper
and they can be classified into two main categories: (a) applications of P2P trading in the energy
sector and (b) a pricing mechanism for a P2P energy trading market. In the first category, P2P energy
transactions require advanced technical support, which is usually obtained by using online services
based on information and communication technology [8]. A hierarchical system architecture has
been proposed to identify and classify the key elements and technologies involved in P2P energy
trading. In addition, a P2P energy trading platform has been presented and illustrated in a simulation
whose results show that P2P energy trading can help with network and congestion management and
allow more DG to be more widely shared within a community [9]. A two-level aggregation control
technology for P2P energy trading in microgrids in communities was devised, which empowers users
to follow their orders through a third party, i.e., an energy sharing coordinator. In the first phase, a
constrained nonlinear programming (CNLP) optimization with a rolling horizon was used to minimize
the community’s energy costs. In the second phase, the control setting point was updated with a
change of real-time measurement results, and was operated based on a price mechanism. It was found
that a P2P energy trading model helps households to obtain 30% lower energy costs than the traditional
energy trading model [10]. An architecture model for the design and interoperability of P2P energy
trading components in microgrids was also proposed and simulated based on game theory, involving
a specific customer-to-customer business model being introduced into a reference grid-connected
microgrid and a core component of the bidding system, Elecbay, being presented [11]. Ottesen et
al. proposed an aggregator exclusive available to the prosumer market, which would be intelligent
enough to make electricity trading decisions on behalf of prosumers. The flexibility and stochastic
planning of bidding in the day-ahead market with the help of an aggregator was investigated and the
results showed that the system flexibility increases with the presence of an aggregator [12].

In the second category of the state-of-the-art literature, a novel dynamic pricing method was
proposed to promote market-oriented decentralized energy transactions and provide the most
economical benefits for owners with distributed generation [13]. A P2P energy trading mechanism
for energy auctions was presented, which ensures the fairness and efficiency of energy auction by
establishing a market design mechanism for energy auction. The Bayesian game strategy is used to



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 3 of 20

develop an optimal bidding strategy for distributed energy owners, so that each participant can obtain
an efficient and economic bidding price. The results show that this model can maximize the utility of
typical distribution network users [14,15]. Tushar W et al. introduced how motivational psychology
encourages distributed energy owners to actively participate in P2P energy trading, and proposed a
game theory P2P energy trading scheme [16]. A P2P trading mechanism was proposed, in which the
decision-making process is modeled by game theory and Shapley value. The game theory approach
provides a distributed energy management solution for individual decision-making with respect
to the optimality and fairness among consumers. Compared with the existing trading mechanism,
the Shapley value trading mechanism helped P2P energy trading achieve better optimization and
fairness [17]. A synchronous game theory based on P2P energy trading in a day-ahead market was
presented, which will empower participants, without limitation to its number, to decide the transaction
price, and VaR is introduced, a risk analysis tool to reduce the risk of transaction failure, maximize
the market interests, and increase the success rate of energy trading [18]. Chen K et al. regarded the
continuous double auction (CDA) market as a promising mechanism for a P2P market that empowers
interactions among prosumers and consumers in distribution grids. For prosumers, achieving optimal
operations and maximize profits necessitates acting as price makers and simultaneously optimizing
their operations and trading strategies [19].

Existing pieces of literature on P2P energy trading have contributed to the applications of
technology and transaction price mechanism modeling. However, there is an imperative gap in
user-centered P2P energy trading. Therefore, a P2P energy trading mechanism based on the coalition
game theory was devised to bridge the gap. The focus of the coalition game is how to motivate
independent decision makers (users) to act together in alignment to elevate their status (or utility) in
the game. The coalition’s stability lies in two bases: (1) The revenue of the grand coalition surpasses
the sum of the benefits that each member would achieve if they were allowed to self-operate. (2) The
revenue allocation of the grand coalition should be based on Pareto improved property, which means
each member will receive a revenue no less than the benefits under independent action. Among the
members, the transparent sharing of information between each other and the enforcement of signed
agreements are the keys to maintain the stability of the coalition.

The main contribution of this paper lies in the following aspects:

(1) A peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading mechanism in the microgrid with distributed photovoltaic
distributed generation and battery energy storage systems (BESSs) was devised and users in the
microgrids were reasonably classified.

(2) A mixed integer linear programming (MILP) method based on YALMIP [20] (it is a modular
language for defining and solving advanced optimization problems, which are written in MATLAB
language) is proposed to optimize the decision-making of P2P electricity transactions considering
a large number of users with distributed photovoltaic generation and battery energy storage
systems (BESSs). The proposed model respects variable real-world constraints, including P2P
power trading, microgrid users, customer load profile, PV system, battery energy storage systems
(BESSs), and market signals.

(3) Based on the coalition game theory, this paper improves the market intermediate rate price model
and introduces the weight variables α and β. By changing the values of α and β, the trajectory
of P2P transaction price can be obtained, which changes the P2P power transaction price from
statics to dynamics, more in line with reality.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents the structure of the microgrid P2P
energy trading system with distributed photovoltaic generation and battery energy storage systems
(BESSs), and proposes a mathematical model. Section 3 describes how to design the P2P power trading
mechanism and trading process in this paper. Section 4 discusses and analyzes the results. In Section 5,
some concluding remarks are drawn with future research.



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 4 of 20

2. Operational Model Analysis and Mathematical Model Construction of P2P Power Trading

SustainIanbitlihtyis20s2e0c, t1i2o,nx ,FOthRePsEtErRucRtEuVrIeEWof the power trading system with PV only based on peer-to4-opfe2e2r
(P2P) technology is presented. Among this system, PV, BESSs, microgrid scheduling, and balance and
amnadnmagaenmagenemt seynstesmyssteamrescaornescidoenrseid.erFeudr.thFeurrmthoerem, tohre,mthaethmematahteimcaal tmicoadl meloodf elaochf ecaocmhpconmepnotnaenndt
athneddtheseigdnesoigf nthoefPt2hPe Pp2oPwperowtraedr itnragdminegchmaencishmanwisimll bweildl ebme odnemstroantestdr.ated.

2..1.. The Operattiion Modell off P2P Power Tradiing wiitth PV

IIn lliightt off tthe sttattus quo off a P2P iin power ttradiing,,we propose a P2P power ttradiing systtem iin
tthe miicrogriid wiitth PV wiitth respectt tto a siinglle fform off energy,, ii..e..,, ellecttriiciitty.. As shown iin Fiigure 1,,
energy ffllow reffers tto tthe flflow off power bettween buyers and sellllers and cash flflow iillllusttrattes tthe cosstt
and iincome of ellectriiciity trade..

FFiigguurree 11.. AArrcchhiitteeccttuurree ooff ppeeeerr--ttoo--ppeeeerr ((PP22PP)) eenneerrggyy ttrraaddiinngg ssyysstteemm iinnmmiiccrrooggrriiddss..

TThhee mmaaiinn mmaarrkkeett ssuubbjjeeccttss iinn tthhee mmiiccrrooggrriidd ccoonnssttrruucctteedd iinn tthhiiss ppaappeerr mmaaiinnllyy iinncclluuddee tthhee
ffoolllloowwiinngg ttyyppeess::

CCoonnssuummeerrss:: uusseerrsswwiitthhoouuttPPVV ccaann bbee ccllaassssiififieedd iinnttoo ttwwoommaajjoorrccllaasssseess:: ccoonnssuummeerrsswwiitthhBBEESSSSss
((rreepprreesseenntteedd bbyyWW)) aanndd ccoonnssuummeerrsswwiitthhoouutt BBEESSSSss ((rreepprreesseenntteedd bbyyMM))..BByyppuurrcchhaassiinngg eelleeccttrriicciittyy aattaa
lloowweerr pprriiccee iinn PP22PP ppoowweerr ttrraaddiinngg,, ccoonnssuummeerrss ccaann rreedduuccee eelleeccttrriicciittyy eexxppeennddiittuurree..

PPrroossuummeerrss:: uusseersrswiwthitPhVPcaVn bceanclabsseificeldasisnitfoietdwoinctaotegtworoiesc:apterogsourmiese:rspwroitshuBmEeSrSss (wreipthresBeEntSeSds
(bryepNre)saenndtepdrobsyumNe)rsanwdithporuostuBmESerSss (wreipthroeusetnBteEdSSbsy R(r)e.pRreecseenivtiendg bcyonRsi)d. eRraebcleeivbienngeficot nbsyidseerllaibnlge
bsuenrpelfuitsbeylecsterlilcinitgy tsournpelaursbyeluescetrrisciotrycthoarngeianrgbyenuesrgerysinotrocshtaorrgaignegweinllemrgoytiivnattoe sutsoerrasgteowpailrltimcipoatitveaitne
uPs2ePrsptoowpearrttriacidpiantge. in P2P power trading.

TThheemmiiccrrooggrriidd ooppeerraattoorr:: aa tthhiirrdd ppaarrttyy iiss rreessppoonnssiibbllee ffoorr tthhee ooppeerraattiioonn aanndd mmaaiinntteennaannccee ooff tthhee
mmiiccrrooggrriidd aanndd tthhee sseettttlleemmeenntt ooff tthhee ttrraannssaaccttiioonn ffeeeess.. AAss wwiitthh tthhee iimmpplleemmeennttaattiioonn ooff tthhee PP22PP eenneerrggyy
ssyysstteemm,, oorrggaanniizziinngg aanndd ssuuppeerrvviissiinngg tthhee ttrraaddiinngg ppllaattffoorrmm iiss tthhee ooppeerraattoorr’’ss rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy aasswweellll..

IInn tthhiiss ssyysstteemm,,PPVVppoowwereerdedbybythtehseusnucnancabnebtheetheneeerngyersgoyurscoeuorcfeusoefrus.seSrusr.pSluusrpelluecstreilceictytriwciitlyl
wfirisllt bfierssttobreedstoinrethdeinbatthteerbyaotrtesroyldortosuolsdertsoinustheresminictrhoegrmidi,ctrhoegnritdra, dtheednwtritahdtehdewgriitdh. tOhengthriedc.oOnntrathrye,
cpounrtcrhaarsyi,ngpuerlecchtarsicinitgy ferloemctroictihteyrfmroimcroogtrhiderumseircsrowgirllidbeucsoenrssuwmilelrbs’eficrosnt scuhmoiceersa’sfwirsetllcihnositceeadasofwtheell
ignrsitde.aTdhoefPth2ePgernider.gTyhteraPd2iPngenseyrsgtyemtraednisnugressysthteemuseenrssuorefsththeemuiscerorsgroifdthene jmoyicprorigorriidtyeinnjoeylepcrtrioicriittyy
itnraenlseaccttriiocnitsy. Ttrhaensmaicctrioognrsi.dTshcehemduiclrionggraidndscbhaeladnucleinmgaannadgebmaelanntcseysmteamnaigseompeernattesdysbtyemtheismoipcreorgatreidd
boypetrhaetomr,iacrnodgrwidhaotpiesrmatoorre, ,atnhde mwhicartogisrimdoorpee, rtahteormisicarolsgorirdesoppoenrsaitbolre ifsoralesnoerregsyptornasnisbalcetifoonrsebneeirnggy
tcraarnrsieadctioountsinbeainngorcdaerrrliyedmoauntnienr,apnurocrhdaesrelyanmdansanleer,exppuernchseasseseatntldemsaelnet,eaxnpdeninsetesrsaectttiloenmwenitth, atnhde
ignrtiedr.aIcttsiownowrkiitnhg tmheecghraindi.smItsiswtoorpkuinrcghamseecthhaensiusmrpluiss etolecpturirccihtyasoef tthheemsuicrrpolgursideulescetrrsicaittythoefPt2hPe
mtraicnrsoagcrtiiodnupsreircse,aatntdhethPen2Psetlrlaint stoacottiohnerpmriiccero, garnidd uthseerns.sIefllthietrteoisosthuerpr lmusicerloecgtrriidcituys, eitrsw. iIlfl stehlelriet tios
sthuerpmluasinelgercitdriacittyth, eitFwITi,llasseolpl pitotsoedthtoe pmuaricnhagsriindgaetlethcteriFciItTy, farsomoptphoesgerdidtoatpTuOrcUhapsrinicge ewlehcetnricthitey
fsruopmpltyheofgerliedctarticTitOyUispinriscueffiwchieennt.thPelasyuipnpglaysoaf tehleircdtrpicairtytyisininthsuefmficiciernotg.rPidla,ythinegmaiscraotghriirddoppaerrtaytoinr
tshigenms aicrcoognrtirda,ctthweitmh iucrsoegrsr,idoffoepresraatorerasl-itgimnseamcoonnittroarcint gwsitehrvuicseervsi,aoaffderisspaatrcehailn-tgimanedmboanlaitnocriinngg
smeravniacgeevmiaeantdsiyspstaetmchitnogeaxnedcubtaeltahnecicnognmtraacnta,gaenmdegnutasryasntetemestotheexepcruioteritthyeocfotnhteramcti,carongdrigduaursaenrsteiens
tehleecptrriicoitryitytraonfstahcetiomnisc.roTghreidmuicsreorgsriind eolpeecrtraitcoirtyfutrnacntisoancstiloiknes.aTnhientmelilcigroengrticdonotprearcattbour tfuitnisctdioiffnesrleinkte.
an intelligent contract but it is different. When the microgrid is in short supply, the microgrid
operator can make a deal with the grid to satisfy the user’s demand. Furthermore, the microgrid
operator also provides the users with technical support, such as operation and maintenance service,
energy generation prediction, and the like. Therefore, the implementation of the P2P energy
transaction in the microgrid can not only increase the effectiveness of energy utilization in the



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 5 of 20

When the microgrid is in short supply, the microgrid operator can make a deal with the grid to satisfy
the user’s demand. Furthermore, the microgrid operator also provides the users with technical support,
such as operation and maintenance service, energy generation prediction, and the like. Therefore, the
implementation of the P2P energy transaction in the microgrid can not only increase the effectiveness of
energy utilization in the microgrid, but also significantly promote the distributed energy consumption
and cut down the electricity costs of the users.

The traditional operation mode of microgrid usually operates in a way that the distributed
generation in microgrids is served first to meet the needs of individual customers, and then to trade
the surplus electricity, if any, with the grid at the FIT of new energy. Nevertheless, the operation
mode of the microgrid integrating peer-to-peer (P2P) technology into power trading will empower
individual customers of the microgrid to trade with each other in real time and then sell the surplus
power to microgrid at the P2P trading price. The application of P2P technology in energy transactions
in microgrids, which enables decentralized transactions, will help with better network and congestion
management, allowing a more efficient trading process, assisting with the renewable generation
intermittency problem and bringing more social capital into the energy sector.

2.2. Mathematical Model

In this paper, a mixed integer linear programming (MILP) model is proposed to optimize
operational decisions with respect to a large number of distributed resources and participation in
P2P energy trading. In the proposed model, the P2P energy trading mechanism and the real-world
limitations on distributed resources, especially PV and BESSs, as well as the fluctuation of market
electricity price, is taken into account. The objective function is to minimize the total energy expenditure
of all individual customers in the microgrid. In the final step, the model is solved by MATLAB R2016b
and CPLEX Optimization Studio v12.8.

2.2.1. The Objective Function

This paper assesses the monetary benefit of P2P energy trading in microgrid from the view of
the microgrid operator. From this point on, we formulate the objective function by looking for the
minimum total energy expenditure of all individual customers in the microgrid.

The inputs for the model include the sets of individual customers and their demand, physical
constraints of photovoltaic panels and energy storage, and market price signals. Decision variables
include real-world PV generation, actual user electricity consumption, battery charge and discharge,
P2P power transaction price, electricity interacting with the main network, and so on.

f = min(Cbtg + Cbtp + Cpv + Cess −Cstg −Cstp) (1)

where Cbtg and Cbtp are the cost of purchasing electricity from the grid and P2P energy market,
respectively. Cpv and Cess represent the cost of maintaining PV and BESSs, respectively. Cstg represents
the benefit to the grid from selling electricity and Cstp is the benefit to individual customers from selling
electricity in the P2P energy market.

(1) The cost and benefit of interacting with the main grid

∑∑T ∑ ∑T
C g

btg = Psell( Qgtu,i,t + Qgtb,i,t) (2)
i∈Ω t=1 i∈W∪R t=1

∑ ∑T ∑ ∑T
Cstg = Pg

buy( Qpvtg,i,t + Qbtg,i,t) (3)
i∈N∪R t=1 i∈W∪R t=1



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 6 of 20

where Pg
sell and Pg

buy are the selling and purchasing price of electricity of the grid. Qgtu,i,t and
Qgtb,i,t are energy bought from the grid for household Ω and BESSs. Qpvtg,i,t represents the energy
sold to the grid from PV and Qbtg,i,t is the energy sold to the grid from BESSs discharge.

(2) The cost and benefit of individual customers participating in P2P energy trading

∑ ∑T ∑ ∑T
Cbtp = PP2P

buy ( Qpvtm,i,t+ Qbtm,i,t) (4)
i∈N∪R t=1 i∈W∪R t=1

where PP2P
buy represents the purchasing price of electricity in the microgrid. Qpvtm,i,t is the energy

sold to the microgrid generated by PV and Qbtm,i,t is the energy sold to the microgrid discharged
from BESSs. ∑∑T ∑ ∑T

Cstp = PP2P
sell ( Qmtu,i,t + Qmtb,i,t) (5)

i∈Ω t=1 i∈W∪R t=1

where PP2P
sell represents the selling price of electricity in the P2P energy trading market. Qmtu,i,t

and Qmtb,i,t are the energy bought from the P2P energy trading market by individual customers
for daily life and BESSs, respectively

(1) The cost of maintaining PV

∑ ∑T ∑∑T
CPV = RPV( (Qpvtg,i,t + Qpvtu,i,t + Qpvtm,i,t) + Qpvtb,i,t) (6)

i∈N∪R t=1 i∈R t=1

where RPV is the operation and maintenance cost of PV per unit electricity. Qpvtu,i,t and Qpvtb,i,t
represent the energy generated by PV for household and BESSs.

(2) The cost of maintaining BESSs

∑∑T ∑ ∑T
Cess = Ress( Qpvtb,i,t + (Qgtb,i,t + Qmtb,i,t + Qbtg,i,t + Qbtm,i,t + Qbtu,i,t)) (7)

i∈R t=1 i∈W∪R t=1

where Ress is the operation and maintenance cost of BESSs per unit of electricity.

2.2.2. Demand Constraint

Depending on the type of individual customers, constraints of customers’ demand can be classified
into four categories.

(1) Neither PV nor BESSs
Di,t = Qmtu,i,t + Qgtu,i,t. (8)

(2) PV but BESSs
Di,t = Qmtu,i,t + Qgtu,i,t + Qpvtu,i,t. (9)

(3) BESSs but PV
Di,t = Qmtu,i,t + Qgtu,i,t + Qbtu,i,t. (10)

(4) Both PV and BESSs
Di,t = Qmtu,i,t + Qgtu,i,t + Qpvtu,i,t + Qbtu,i,t. (11)

The constraints (8)–(11) ensure that each class of users’ needs can be met. Individual customers in
electricity deficiency without the distributed generation will first purchase electricity from the P2P
energy trading market and then the grid. Households with PV and BESSs will first participate in the
P2P market to sell surplus electricity to peers in the microgrid.



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 7 of 20

2.2.3. The Output Constraint of PV

Affected by the solar intensity and temperature, photovoltaic generation is intrinsically intermittent
and fluctuant. According to research [21,22], solar intensity is approximately subordinate to the beta
distribution during a certain period of time, and the probability density formulation is:

Γ(α+ β) G α−1 G β−1
f (G) = × ( ) × (1− ) (12)

Γ(α)Γ(β) Gm Gm

where Γ(•) is a gamma function in which G and Gm are the real-world and maximum solar intensity
during a certain period of time. Shape parameters α, β can be obtained by making use of the average
light intensity and variance during this period[ of time. ]

Gu × (1−Gu)
α = Gu × (13

σ2 − 1 )

[ ]
G × (1−G

β = (1−G u u)
u) × (1 )

σ2 − 1 4

where Gu is the average solar intensity during a certain period of time and σ2 represents variance of
solar intensity.

Measuring the temperature of the photovoltaic cell directly is not that easy due to the technical
limitations, therefore, for the packaged solar cell assembly, the working temperature of the photovoltaic
cell can be estimated by measuring the ambient temperature according to function (15).

G
Tw = Te + 30× (15)

1000

where Tw and Te are the working and ambient temperature of photovoltaic cells, respectively.
The output of the PV can be expressed as follows [23]:

G
Ppv = Ps × × [1 + K(T − T

G w r)] (16)
s

where Gs is the solar intensity under new conditions of the standard test and Gs = 1000 W/m2. Ps is
the maximum output under the standard test. K is the power temperature coefficient. Tr represents

◦

the reference temperature, and Tr = 25 C. As shown in Figure 2, the output of the PV is simulated
according to thSeushtaiinsabtiolitry i2c02a0,l12s,ox lFaORr PiEnEtReRnEVsIiEtWy and the temperature data. 8 of 22

Figure 2. RelaFitgiuornes2h. Rieplabtioentswhiepebnetwpehenoptohovtoovlotlataiiccppoowwereorutopuuttapnudtsoalanrdradsioaltiaorn irnatednisaittyi.on intensity.

Depending on the classes of individual customers, the output of the PV can be classified into
two categories.
(1) PV only

Qpv,i,t Qpvtu,i,t Qpvtm,i,t Qpvtg ,i,t
Q , , Q

 (17)
pv i t pv,i,t

(2) Both PV and BESSs

Qpv,i,t Qpvtu,i,t Qpvtm,i,t Qpvtg ,i,t Qpvtg ,i,t
Q , , Q

 (18)
pv i t pv,i,t

The electricity generated by the PV can be used for households, BESSs, and trade. The
constraints (17) and (18) ensure that the energy generated by all PV systems will not exceed the
maximum predicted power generation Q

pv,i,t .

2.2.4. The Constraint of Battery Energy Storage Systems
During a period of time, the storage capacity and physical constraints of the BESSs can be

modeled by a simplified linear function and described as follows:



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 8 of 20

Depending on the classes of individual customers, the output of the PV can be classified into
two categories.

(1) PV only
Qpv,i,t = Qpvtu,i,t + Qpvtm,i,t + Qpvtg,i,t
Q (

pv,i,t ≤ Q∗ 17)
pv,i,t

(2) Both PV and BESSs

Qpv,i,t = Qpvtu,i,t + Qpvtm,i,t + Qpvtg,i,t + Qpvtg,i,t
Q (

pv,i,t ≤ Q∗ 18)
pv,i,t

The electricity generated by the PV can be used for households, BESSs, and trade. The constraints
(17) and (18) ensure that the energy generated by all PV systems will not exceed the maximum predicted
power generation Q∗pv,i,t.

2.2.4. The Constraint of Battery Energy Storage Systems

During a period of time, the storage capacity and physical constraints of the BESSs can be modeled
by a simplified linearfunction and described as follows

 (: )
 P

 Q P

 B,i,t = QB,i,t−∆t × (1− ηsd,i,t) + cha,i,tη
diss,i,t

cha,i,t − η ∆t

 diss,i,t

 SOC QB,i,t
i,t = Q × 100%

 B,i

 SOC

 min,i ≤ SOCi,t ≤ SOCmax,i (19)

 0 ≤ P

 cha,i,t ≤ Pmax

 cha,i,tUcha,i,t

 0 ≤ Pdiss,i,t ≤ Pmax
diss,i,tUdiss,i,t

Ucha,i,t + Udiss,i,t ≤ 1

where QB,i,t is the storage capacity of BESSs at hour t and ηsd,i,t represents self-discharge rate. To simplify
the computational process, ηsd,i,t is considered to be [10]. Pdiss,i,t and Pdiss,i,t are charging/discharging
power. SOCi,t is the storage capacity status of BESSs. SOCmax,i and SOCmin,i are the maximum and
minimum of storage capacity status of BESSs related to the property of the BESSs. Ucha,i,t and Udiss,i,t
represent the charge and discharge power state of the BESSs with the opposite binary value of (0 or 1),
for the battery cannot be charged or discharged at the same time.

These constraint functions are formulated by considering the state of the battery, the technical
limitations on battery capacity, and charging/discharge operation. At a certain moment, the battery
can either be charged or discharged, and the maximum storage capacity cannot go beyond its rated
capacity. However, this paper highlights the application of P2P in energy trading, so only the basic
model of the battery was considered in this paper.

3. P2P Energy Trading Mechanism

3.1. P2P Energy Trading Process

Figure 3 presents four major stages of the P2P energy trading process in the microgrid containing
user demand, initiation of transactions, system verification, and execution of transactions. The
transaction process can be implemented based on blockchain technology or other similar distributed
networks. The blockchain record transaction information in the form of smart contracts spread to each
node through a distributed network and form a consensus [24–26].



Sustainability 2020, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 10 of 22

dSuesstaiginnabaitlietyd20P202,P12,p9u23rchasing and selling prices and external orders (orders with main gri9do)f 2a0t
clearing prices.

FFiigguurree 33.. PP22PP eenneerrggyy ttrraaddiinngg pprroocceessss..

3.2. CIonatlihteiosntaGgaemoef the customer demands, users forecast the electricity demand and energy generation
at timTehesloPt2tPbaseenderognyretaralidtyi,nagndmfeocrhmanthisemdemisanddesiingfnoerdmattoione.ncourage the participation in the
decenIntrathliezestdageeneorfgtyhemianritkieatt,iohnelopfwthiethtrtahnesarcetnioenw,aibf ltehegeunseerra’stinoent ilnotaedrm(loitatedndcyemparonbdlemmin, ucus tendeorwgyn
egleencetrriactiitoyn)eixsppeonsdititivuer,e,coarnredspeolenvdaetnetltyh, ea pmuorncheatasreyorbdeenrewfitillobfedgiesntreirbautteeddbygetnheerPa2tiPonenoewrgnyetrrsa.dTinhge
spulactcfeosrsmo,foPth2ePrwtriasde ianngedleecptreincditys osanlethoerddeerswiginll boef agerneearsaotnedab. lAe fttreardthinagt,mtheecohradneirssmw. iMll abneysepnitetcoesthoef
lmitiecrraotgurriedhtahvroeumghadteheredliesvtrainbtustteuddnieestw, sourckh. as direct method [27], indirect method [2], and FIT [28].
In dirInectthme settahgoedo, fatshiengselecudriisttyricbhuetcekd, rfierssotluyr,cteheisocrodnertrsowlleildl baenvdemrifianedagbeydthbye manicarogggrriedgastcohre,dwuhliinlsgt
iannddirbeactlanmceethmoadnargeefemrsenttosythsteemstruantedgeyr tihnewcohniscthraaintcsenoftreanl eorgrgyabnaizlaanticoen, tsheenrdesal-atimsigeneallecttorictihtye
dpirsictreibouf ttehdegmeanienragtrioidn, oawndnethrsetmo ianfifmecutmtheoipr eerleactitorincaitlycocostnosufmthpetsioynstaenmd. pSeocwoenrdglye,ntehreatoiopntimdeacliPsi2oPn.
UpunrdcehrastihnegFaInTdmseellcihnagnpisrmice, shwowillebveerc,altchuelaetnegdabgyemMeInLtPoofpptirmoiszuamtioerns, aisndmpourebliusnheeqdutiovothcealufsoerrst.he
prodIuncethrse tsotasgeellosfuerxpelcuustieolnecotrfitcriatydidnigr,eacfttleyrttohethoerdmearsinhagvriedbaenend cpoumrcphleatseede, lfeocrtreiaccithypfarortmicitphaentm, tahien
gmriicdroifgnriededoepde.raWtoercwanilnloset tdtleencyhtahregecsonoftriinbtuetrinoanloofrdtheirssr(eosredaerrcshwinithPi2nPthapepmliiccartoiognri,db)uatt tdheesriegnisastetidll
aP2kPeypugarcphiansitnhge apnradcstieclalilnPg2pPrmiceeschaanndisemxtecrennatleorerddeorns (porrodseurms werist.h main grid) at clearing prices.

3.2. CTohaelirteiofonrGe,amane improved midmarket rate (MMR) model based on the coalition game theory is
proposed to bridge the gap between the research and practical application in the P2P energy
tradinTghemPe2cPheanneisrgmy itnratdhinisgpmapecehr.anTihsme pisridnecsipiglneeodfttoheenMcoMurRag[e29th]eispathrtaict itphaetiorenfeinretnhceedpecriecnetroafliPze2dP
ternaenrsgayctimonarskiests,ehtealspthweitmhetahne vraelnueewoafbtlheegeelnecetrraictiiotynpinutrecrhmasiitntegnacnydpsreolblilnegmp, rciucet odfotwhne melaeicntrgicriitdy,
aenxpdetnhdeiptuurrec,haansdinegleavnadtesethlleinmgopnriectearoyf beleencetrfiitciotyf dinistthriebuPt2ePdmgeanrkeerat tiisobnaosewdnoenrst.hTrheee sscuecncaersisoos.f P2P
trading depends on the design of a reasonable trading mechanism. Many pieces of literature have
(m1)adeTrheeletvoatanlt esntuedrgieys,gseuncehraatsiodniroecfttmheetphroodsu[2m7e],rsinidsireeqcutaml etothtohde [o2v],earnaldl FdIeTm[a2n8d]. Iinn dmiriecrcotgmriedths.oIdn,
a singthleisdcisatsrei,btuhteedPr2ePsotruardceinigs cpornicteroellqeudaalsntdhme aavneargaegdebvyaaluneaogfgtrhegeaetloerc,twrichiitlystpinudrcihreacstinmgeathnoddsreelfleinrsg
to theprsitcreaotefgthyeinmwaihnigchrida.central organization sends a signal to the distributed generation owners
(t2o)a The total energy generation of the prosumers is greater than the overall demand in microgrids. Inffect their electricity consumption and power generation decision. Under the FIT mechanism,
howetvheisr,stihtueaetniognag, ethmeePnt2Pofppurorcshuamsienrgs ips rmicoereofuneleeqcutriivcoitcyalefqouratlhsetphreoadvuecreargsetovsaellulesuorfptlhues eelleeccttrriicciittyy
direcptluyrctohatshinegmaanidn sgerlildinganpdricpeuorcfhthaseemealeinctgrirciidtyseftrobmy tthheepmrinaicnipgleriodf itfhneebeadlaendc.eWbeetwcaenennotthedeconsyt
the caonndtrtihbue tiinocnomofetohfisthreesmeaicrrcohgirnidPo2pPeraaptporli.cation, but there is still a key gap in the practical P2P
(m3)echTahneistmotacel netneerregdyognepnreorasutimonerosf. the prosumers is smaller than overall demand in microgrids, in

wThheicrehfocraes,eatnheimPp2rPovseedllinmgidpmriacrekoetf realetect(rMiciMtyRi)smeqoudaell btoastehde oanvetrhaegecovaaliltuioenogf atmhee ethleecotrriyciitsy
propposuerdchtaosbinrgidagnedthseelglianpg bpertiwceeoefntthheemreasienagrcrhidasnedt bpyratchteicparlianpcpiplilecaotfiotnheinbathlaenPc2ePbeetnweregeyn ttrhaedcinosgt
mechaanndistmheinintchoismpeaopfetrh. eThmeicprroingcriidploepoefrtahteorM. MR [29] is that the reference price of P2P transactions is
set as the mean value of the electricity purchasing and selling price of the main grid, and the purchasing
and selling price of electricity in the P2P market is based on three scenarios.



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 10 of 20

(1) The total energy generation of the prosumers is equal to the overall demand in microgrids. In
this case, the P2P trading price equals the average value of the electricity purchasing and selling
price of the main grid.

(2) The total energy generation of the prosumers is greater than the overall demand in microgrids. In
this situation, the P2P purchasing price of electricity equals the average value of the electricity

Sustainpabuilritcyh2a0s2i0n, g12a, xnFdOsRelPlEinEgRpREriVcIeEWof the main grid set by the principle of the balance between th1e1 ocfo2s2t
and the income of the microgrid operator.

(3) TThheePto2tPalmenarekrgetymgeencehraantiisomn omf ethnetiopnroedsuambeorvseiswsimthalllietrtlethraensioliveenrcaellhdaesmaanlidmiintedmiecfrfoegctridosn,
encouirnagwinhgichpacratsiceipthaetioPn2PinsePll2iPngenperricgeyotfraedleinctgr.icTithyeisfoecquusaolftoa tchoealaivtieornaggeamvaeluisehoofwthetoemlecottriivcaittye
indeppeunrdcehnatsidnegcaisnidonsemlliankgerpsritcoe oafctthteogmeathinergraisd asewt bhyotlheetopreinlecvipalteeotfhtehire bstaaltaunsce(obretuwtieleitny)thienctohset
gamea. nGdatmhee inthcoeomreyoifsthae mmiactrhoegmriadtiocpael ratotoorl. used to analyze coping strategies in competitive
environments, in which the behavior of one player depends on the behavior of the other players
[30]. TGhaemPe2Pthmeoarrykectamn ecbheanroisumghmlyendtiivoindeedd aibnotvoe twiothclaittetlgeorrieessi:liennocnecohoaps earaltiimveitegdameffeesctanond
ceonocpoeurraatgivineggapmaretisc.iTphaetiroenairne Ptw2Po ebnaesergsyfotrrathdeinsgta. bTihlietyfoocfuthseofcoaacliotaiolinti:o(n1)gTahmeeoivsehraolwl rteovemnouteivthataet
tihnedegpraennddecnotadlietcioisniocnanmaackheiresvteoiascgtrteoagteetrhtehraans tahwe hsuomle toofetlheevaretevethneuier swtahteuns (eoarchutmilietym)binerthoepegraamtees.
iGnadmepeetnhdeeonrytlyis. a(2m) aFtohremeaacthicaml teomolbuers,edthteo aanllaolcyazteiocnopoifngresvterantueegiesshoinulcdomabpiedtietivbeyetnhveirpornimnceinptlse, ionf
Pwahriectho tihmepbreohvaevmioernot.f Ionnoetphlearywerodredps,enthdes roenvethneubeethhaavt ieoarcohfmtheemotbheerrmplaayyeartsta[i3n0]is. Gnoamleessthtehoarnytchaant
obfenroout gjohilnyindgivitdheedailnlitaontcwe.oTchaetegchoarireasc:tenroinstciocsopoefrathtievecogaalmitieosnangdamcoeoepnesruatrievethgoasmeecso.nTdhietiroenasretotwboe
sbaatsisefsiefdor, twhheiscthabmilietaynosfmtheemcobaerlistioonf :th(1e) aTlhlieanocveereaxllchreavnegneuientfhoarmt tahteiognraannddctohaelitsiiognnecadnaagcrheieemveenist
mgruesattebrethenanfotrhceedsu. m of the revenue when each member operates independently. (2) For each member,
the allocation of revenue should abide by the principle of Pareto improvement. In other words, the
3re.2v.e1n. TuheethDaet seiagcnhomf ePm2PbeTrrmadaiyngatMtaienchisannoismlesss than that of not joining the alliance. The characteristics
of thAe cccooarlditiinogn tgoamthee emnosutirveattihoonsael cposnydchitoiolongsytoofbeusseartsistfioepda, rwtihciipchatme ienanmsicmroegmrbiderPs2oPf ttrhaedainllgia,nthcee
Pex2cPhtarnagdeinignfporrmiceastiionnmanicdrothgerisdisgnfaeldl iangrteheemreanntgme oufst bPe egnforgced.

 buy ,Psell  , which can be converted to linear
w3.e2i.1g.hTtihneg,DaensdigtnheofrePd2PlinTeraidniFniggMurec4hailnluissmtrastes the trajectory of P2P trading prices.

According to the motivational psychoPlogy g g
 P2P [ofu ]

PgP
sers
buy 

topParticipate in microgrid P2P trading, the P2P
sell

trading prices in microgrids fall in the range of buy, Pg
sell , which can be converted to linear weigh(2ti0n)g,

and the red line in Figure 4 illustrates thetrajecto1ry of P2P trading prices.

g g  PP2P = αPg
buy + βPg

where Pbuy and Psell are the purchasing and selling price of electricity of the main grid. PP2P
sell (b2uy0)

α+ β = 1
P2P

and Psel are the purchasing and selling price of electricity in the P2P market. Qnl (t) is the
where Pg

buy and Pg
sell are the purchasing and selling price of electricity of the main grid. PP2P

buy and PP2P
energy demand of the user n at time slot t and Qnpv(t) is the energy generated by PV n at tismelle
are the purchasing and selling price of electricity in the P2P market. Qn(t) is the energy demand of the
sulsoetr nt .at time slot t and Qn

pv(t) is the energy generated by PV n at time slot t.

FFiigguurree 44.. TThhee ttrraajjeeccttoorryyooffPP22PP ttrraaddiinnggpprriicceess..

The P2P energy trading mechanism is designed to facilitate the consumption of distributed
resources in local areas, have revenue of distributed generation retained locally, and give social
capital a boost in distributed generation and microgrid.

P2P energy trading price is set in reference to PP2P and the principle of balance between
income and cost of microgrid operators. The formula can be expressed as follows:



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 11 of 20

The P2P energy trading mechanism is designed to facilitate the consumption of distributed
Sruesstoaiunracbielistyin20l2o0c, 1a2l,axrFeOasR,PhEaEvReRrEeVvIeEnWue of distributed generation retained locally, and give social c1a2poift2a2l
a boost in distributed generation and microgrid.

P2P energy trading priNce is set in referencNe to PP2P andN the principNle of balance between income
and cost of micro dP2oPperatorsnP Qp.vT(th)efoPr

Pm2P

gri ulacanQbnbuy e(et)xpreQdn
sell pavs(tf)ollowsQ: n (t) P

 n1 n1 ∣ n1 n1

 ∣
 ∣ess

 N N N ∣
 P2P N ∑ n N ∑ ∣ ∣
 ∣
 P
if     ∑ (t) =PP2P n t) ±

 sell × Qpv buy × Q ( ∣
=Qn

1 ∣ ∑N Qn ∑
pv(t) − Qn(t)∣∣× P

 n pv (t) Qn (t)n=10,     P nP g
=b1uy n=1 ∣ (21)

 Nn1 N

 n1

 i f n ∑
pv(t) n

− Q (t) > 0, P = Pg 21)

 N N

 n
if    ∑

Q
=1 n
N Qn (t) ∑ (

=1 buy

Ni f Qn Qn (t)  0,     P  P g

 pv sell
 n pv(t) − Qn(t , P g

) < 0 = P
n n ll
=11 n=11 se

IInn oorrddeerr ttoo pprreesseenntt tthhee pprriicciinngg pprroocceessss ooff tthhee PP22PP maarrkkeett moorree ssppeecciiffiiccaallllyy,, wee ddiivviiddeedd tthhee
ooppeerraattiioonn ooff miiccrrooggrriidd iinnttoo tthhrreeee ppoossssiibbllee sscceennaarriiooss aanndd aannaallyyzzee tthheem rreessppeeccttiivveellyy..
ScenaSrcieon1a:rpioro1d: upcrtoidonucetqiounalesqdueamlsadnedm, aasndsh, oaws snhionwFniginurFeig5u. re 5.

FFiigguurree 55.. PPrroodduuccttiioonn eeqquuaa∑llssddeemaanndd..N ∑N
In this case, P2P trading price can be calculated by N Qn

pv(t) − N Qn(t) = 0, which means
In this case, P2P trading price can be calculated by n=1 Qn (t)n=1

∑ Qn
pv (t)  0 , which means

N ∑N n1 n1

PP2P N N P 2P
sell × Qn

p2v
(t) =PP2P

buy × Qn(t)PP2
sell = PP

buy = PP2P (22)
Sustainability 2020, 12, x FOR PEER RnE=V1IEPP P

W Qn (t) 2
n=1PP P Qn

sell pv buy (t) 13 of 22
n1 n1

ScenaSrcieon2a:rpioro2d: upcrotidouncetxiocneeedxscedeed
(22)

msadnedm, aansdsh, aoswsnhoinwFniginurFeig6u. re 6.
PP2P PP2P
sell buy PP2P

∑ Figure 6. Production exceeds demand.
N
N ∑N

In this case, Qn N
pv(t) − Qn(t) > 0 and prosumers will be price takers for surplus energy that

In this case,n=1 Qn (t)n=1 Qn
pv (t)  0 and prosumers will be price takers for surplus energy

has to be exported tno1the grid atnP
g

1buy to maintain the energy balance in the microgrid. Therefore, in the

that has to be exported to the grid at Pg
buy to maintain the energy balance in the microgrid.

Therefore, in the microgrid, users will be the price taker, which means the P2P energy purchasing
PP2P PP2P

price buy PP2P and sell is set based on the equal value of cost and benefit.

N N N
PP2P Qn (t)  (Qn (t) Qn (t)) P g
buy pv buy

PP2P  n1 n1 n1
sell N (23)

Qn
pv (t)

n1 .
Scenario 3: demand exceeds production, as shown in Figure 7.

Figure 7. Production is less than demand.

N N
In this case, Qn (t)Qn

pv (t)  0 and users in energy deficiency will be price takers for
n1 n1

Pg
the necessary amount of energy that has to be imported from the main grid at sell to ensure the
demand is met in the microgrid. Therefore, in the microgrid, prosumers will be the price taker,
which means the P2P energy selling price PP2P

sell  PP2P and PP2P
buy is set based on the equal

value of cost and benefit.



Sustainability 2020, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 13 of 22

Scenario 2: production exceeds demand, as shown in Figure 6.

Figure 6. Production exceeds demand.

N N
In this case, Qn

pv (t)Qn(t)  0 and prosumers will be price takers for surplus energy
n1 n1

Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 12 of 20
that has to be exported to the grid at Pg

buy to maintain the energy balance in the microgrid.
Tmhiecrroefgorried,, iunsethrsewmiilclrboegrthide,pursiecrestawkiellr,bwe hthicehpmriecaentsakthere,Pw2hPicehnemrgeyanpsutrhcheaPs2inPgepnreircgeyPpP2uPrchasing

P2P buy = PP2P
panridcePPP2P

sellbuyis setP
P2P

bPa2sPedaonndthPesellquailsvsaeltubeaosfecdoostnatnhde beqenueafil tv.alue of cost and benefit.

N NN N
P2PP2P

N
∑ n

QQn ( )+((∑ n
Qn

ppvv((tt))
∑N n

Pbbuuyy × (t)t −Qn((tt))))× g
Pg
buuyy

PPP2PP2P  n=n11 n=n11 n=n1
b

1
sseellll = ∑N . (2(32)3)

N
Qnn

ppvv(t))
nn=11 .

ScenaSrcieon3a:rdioem3:adnedmeaxncdeeedxsceperdods upcrotidoun,ctaisonsh, oaswsnhoinwFniginurFeig7u. re 7.

Fiigurre 7.. Producttiion iis lless tthan demand.∑ .

N ∑N
In this case, NQn n(t) < 0 and users in energy deficiency will be price takers for the
In this case, pv(t)

N
n

n=1 Qn − Q
pv (t)n=1 Q (t)  0 and users in energy deficiency will be price takers for

necessary amount onf1energy thanth1 as to be imported from the main grid at Pg
sell to ensure the demand is

tmheetninectehsesamryicaromgoriudn. tTohfeerenfeorrgey, itnhathtehmasictroobgeridim, pproorstuedmefrrosmwitlhl ebemthaienpgrricide taatkePr, wg hich means the
P2P energy selling price PP2P ed on the equal value of cosstelal

to ensure the
nd benefit.

demand is met in the miscerll
= PP2P and PP2P
ogrid. Thereforbuey is set bas

, in the microgrid, prosumers will be the price taker,
N ∑N ∑N P 2P

hich means the P2P energy selling price PP2P
w

PP2P ∑ n sell  P P
P2P and n buy isg set based on the equal

value of cost and benefit. sell × Qpv(t) + ( Qn(t) − Qpv(t)) × P
PP2P n=1 n

buy = ∑=1 n=1 sell
. (24)

N
Qn(t)

n=1

3.2.2. Assumptions

Based on the coalition game theory, we make three assumptions for the P2P trading mechanism:

(1) All participants are rational decision makers.
(2) All participants must comply with the internal agreement and forbid members to withdraw

casually from the grant union.
(3) All participants enjoy priority in purchasing energy from the microgrid and selling electricity to

peers in the microgrid.

In Figure 1, prosumers will sell surplus electricity to the microgrid operator and customers will
buy energy from the microgrid operator. According to the real-time monitoring data of the microgrid
scheduling and balance management system, the microgrid operator will balance the internal system
by exporting surplus electricity to the main grid or importing deficient energy from the main grid.
The P2P trading price is set based on the principle that cost is equal to revenue. Meanwhile, the main
monetary benefit of microgrid operator comes from registration fees for users and services charges,
including PV maintenance, PV output prediction, etc.



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 13 of 20

4. Case Study

To show the feasibility of the proposed P2P energy trading system, we tested it on an artificial
situation, which contained 30 households, including 5 residential customers without PV and BESSs,
5 with BESSs only, 10 with PV only, and 10 with both PV and BESSs. For each residential customer in
the microgrid, it was assumed that their maximum demand is 80 kW. Gross capacity of solar panels and
BESSs whose specification is the same as PV were assumed to be 115 kW and 50 kW, respectively. The
real-time energy usage of residents can be demonstrated in the scheduling and balance management
system of microgrid. The value of the FIT price was assumed to be 0.381 ¥/kWh. The tiered selling
price ofSeulsetacintarbiilcitiyty202f0r,o1m2, xtFhOeRgPErEidR RtEoVrIEeWsidential is shown in Figure 8. 15 of 22

FiguFriegu8r.eM8.aMinaignrgirdidrereaall--ttiimmeeppuurcrhchasaesaenadnsdalesaplreicpe.rice.

In this Ipnatpheisr,pthapeemr, itxheedmiinxteedgienrtelginerealirnpearrogprroagmramimngin(gM(MILILPP) )mmeetthhoodd bbaasseeddoonnYYAALLMMIPIPwwasas used
to solveustehde tmo osdolevle. tYhAe LmModIePl. iYsAaLsMoIlPutisona tsoolultbionx twoorlibtotexnwirnittMenAiTnLMAABTlLaAnBgulanggeu.agIet.cIatncaonptimize
the objeocptitvimeizfuenthcetioobnjebctyivceaflulinncgtioonnbay vcaalrliinegtyonofacvoamriemtyeorcf icaolmompetirmciailzoaptitoimnizsaotlivonersso,lsvuercsh, sauschLaPsSOLVE,
CPLEX,LaPnSOdLGVRE,UCOPLBEI.XI,nantdhiGsRaUrtOicBleI.,Iwn ethwis raorttieclteh, we eprworgorteamthecpordoegrtahmrocuogdehtthhreouYgAhLthMe IYPAtLoMoIlPbox and
called Ctoolbox and called CPLEX in the MATLAB operation environment to optimize the solution. FinallywPeLgEoXt tihne tohpetiMmaAl TpLricAeBofotpheer2a4tiohnP2ePnvpiurrocnhmaseenant dtosaolpe tpimriciezeinththeesmolicurtoigornid. ,Faisnsahlolywnwiengot the
optimalFpigruicree o9af,bth, ean2d4thhePm2Pinpimuurmchtaostealaonpdersaatilnegpnreictecoinst tohfethme imcricorgorgirdid, aflsuschtuoawtednwinitFhigthuervea9luae,bo,fand the
minimupmaratomteatleroperaatnindg ne,tacsosshtoowfntihneFmiguicrreo1g0r. id fluctuated with the value of parameter α and β, as
shown in Figure 10.

In Figure 9a, the line of the main grid sales price is always at the top, indicating that purchasing
electricity from the P2P market is always cheaper than that in the main grid no matter how the value of
α and β change, which is conducive to encouraging microgrid users to participate in P2P transactions.
In Figure 9b, the FIT price is fixed and the P2P selling price of electricity fluctuates with the value
of α and β. When α = 0.6, β = 0.4, the lower limit of the optimal P2P selling price of electricity
obtained for the P2P selling price of electricity is higher than the FIT price at this point, and it keeps
rising. Therefore, when α = 0.6, β = 0.4, the minimum operating net cost of the microgrid can be
achieved. In Figure 10, with the change of α and β, the net operating cost of microgrid gradually
increases, which is due to the increase in the P2P transaction price, and the growth rate of internal cost
of the microgrid is greater than that of internal revenue. Simultaneously meeting the conditions of the
minimum operating net cost of the microgrid and a higher P2P sales price than FIT, we thus got the
best P2P energy transaction price at α = 0.6, β = 0.4.



Sustaiinabiilliity 2020,, 12,, x92F3OR PEER REVIEW 164 off 220

(a)

(b)
Fiigure 9.. P2P energy transaction price.. ((a))Energy purchase price of P2P transaction.. (b) Energy sale
priice offP2P ttransacttiion..



SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy22002200,,1122,,x92F3OR PEER REVIEW 1175ooff2220

FFiigguurree1100..Neettccoossttooff2244hhooppeerraattiioonnooffmiiccrrooggrriidd..

4.1. AInnaFlyigsiusroef t9hae,OtvheeralllinOepeorfatitohneofmthaeinMgicrriodgrsidales price is always at the top, indicating that
purchAassisnhgoewlenctirnicFitiygufrroem11t,hferoPm2P0:m00artkoe6t :i0s0a, lPwVaystsocphsefaupnecrtitohnaningthaant dinhtohuesmehaoinldgsrcidannmo emeat tttheer
hdoewmatnhde bvyadluisechoafrging thanedbattery acnhdanimgep,owrtihnigcheliesctcroicnitdyufcroivme tthoeemnacionugrraigdi.nIgn tmheicdroagy,rfidromus7e:r0s0 ttoo
p1a6r:0ti0c,itphaetePVinstPa2rtPs ttoragnesnaecrtaiotense.leIcntriFciigtyu,rtehe9obu, ttphuetsFoITf wphriicche ciasnfisxaetdisfyantdhetnheeedP2foPr soevlelirnagll dperimceanodf
einlecthtreicmityicrflougcrtiuda. tTeos wbeitehxtahcet,vhaoluuseeohfolds wainthdPV a.nWdhBeEnSSs w=i0ll.6fir,stm=ee0t.4th,etihreelleocwtreicriltiymdietmofatnhde,
oapntdimthaelnP2cPhasreglelinthgepbraictteeoryf etolegcterticrietvyeonbuteaibnyedseflolirntghesuPr2pPlusseellliencgtrpicriitcyetofpeelecrtsrincityheismhiicgrhoegrritdhaonr
tehxepFoIrTtinpgritcoetahtetmhiasinpogirnidt,.aFnrdomit 1k7e:e0p0stori2s3in:0g0.,Twheerceafnorse,ewthhaetnPVsy=s0te.6m,s do n=o t0g.4en,etrhaetemeliencitmricuimty
oapnedrathtiengenneertgcyorsetsofutrhcee fmorichrogursiedhcoaldnsbceoamcehsiefvroedm. BInESFSigsudriesc1h0a, rwgiitnhgtohreicmhpaonrgteinogf from athnedmain,
tghreidn. eFtigoupreer1a1tinilglusctorsatteosfthmaitcernoegrrgidy tgrraandsaucatliloynsinincrtehaesePs2,Pwmhaicrhkeitsmdauinelytoocthcuerifnrcormea7s:e00intot1h6e:0P02oPf
ttrhaensdaacyt,ioonf wphriicche,thanedgretheen pgarortwotfhthreatbearocfhianrttesrtnaanldcsofsotr oenf etrhgeympuicrrcohgarsiedd ifsrogmretahteerP2thPamnatrhkaett boyf
ihnoteursneahlorldevseannudet.hSeimorualntagneefoour selnyemrgeyestoinldg itnhethceoPn2dPitmionarskoeft bthyehmouinseimhouldms.oIpfePrVatoinugtpnuetts ceoxscteeodf tthhee
mdeicmroagnrdidofapnrdosaumhiegrhse, ritPw2iPll bsaelmesopreriactetrtahcatniveFIfTor, pwreostuhmusergsottotfihrestbtersatdPe2ePlecetnreicrigtyy itnrathnesaPc2tiPomn aprrkiceet,
aatndth=e n0e.x6p,ortsu=r p0lu.4s e.nergy to the main grid cleared at retail price under the organization of the P2P
operator, as the selling price of energy in the P2P market is relatively higher than that in the main grid
4a.n1d. Athnealpyusirscohfatshine gOpvreircaelliOs qpueriatetiothneoofpthpeoMsitiec.roIgnrgideneral, the proposed P2P energy trading mechanism
can achieve favorable savings for households with PV systems installed, decrease the electricity costs
for uAsesrsshinowthne imnicFrioggurried,1a1n, dfroremali0z:e00a twoin6:–0w0,inPVsitustaotpiosnfufonrcptiroonsiunmg earnsdanhdoucsueshtoomldesrsc.an meet the
demand by discharging the battery and importing electricity from the main grid. In the day, from
74:.020. Otope1r6a:t0io0n, atlhPeerPfoVrmsatanrctesotfoPrgoesnuemreartseAenleaclytrsicsity, the outputs of which can satisfy the need for
overaTllhdeeompearnadtioinnatlhpeermfoicrmroagnrcide.oTf porboesuemxaecrts,whiothusPeVhoglednserwatiitohnPaVndaBndESBSEsSisSislluwsitlrlaftierdstinmFeiegtutrhee1i2r.
eTlhecetrPicVityoudtepmutasnfdr,oamnd7:t0h0entoc1h7a:r0g0ectahnebbeatdteivryidteodgienttroevfoeunruecabteygsoerlileinsgacscuorprdluinsgelteocttrhiecitmyettohpodeeorsf
ienntehregymuicsarogger: i(d1)oSreelfx-pcoonrtsiunmg tpotitohnefmorapinrogsruimd.eFrrso.m(2)1C7:h0a0rgtoin2g3t:0h0e,bwaettecrayn. (s3e)eTtrhaadtePiVn Psy2sPtemmasrkdeot.
n(4o)tEgxepnoerrtattoetheleemctraiicnitgyriadn.dP2thPeeneenregrygytrardesinogurfocer tfhoerdhiostursibeuhtoelddsgecnoemraetsiofnroismaBprEoSmSsisdinigscmhaercghianngisomr
itmhaptoerntianbglesfrtohme suthrpe lumsaeinnerggryido.fFpirgousurem1e1rs itlolubsetrcaotnessutmheadt ienntehregyloctaralnarseaac,tigoinvsinginritsheetoPt2hPe rmevaernkueet
mofapinrloysuomcceurrs,frhoemlp7in:0g0wtoit1h6e:0le0cotrficthiteydcoayst, roefdwuhctiicohnt.hAesgtrheeenCphainrtesoef gthoevberanrmcheanrttgsrtaadndusalfloyrreendeurcgeys
pthuercshuabsseiddyfrfoomr ththeenPe2wPemnearrgkyetfebeydh-ionutsaerhi olds and the orange for energy sold in the P2P market byffs, the investment of social capital in the development and
hcoounssterhuocltdiosn. oIff nPeVw eonuetrpguytsis eaxlscoeegdradthuealldyermedauncdingo,fwphriochsutmo esorsm, eitexwteinllt hbiendmerosrteheadttervaecltoivpemefonrt
prosumers to first trade electricity in the P2P market, and then export surplus energy to the main
grid cleared at retail price under the organization of the P2P operator, as the selling price of energy



Sustainability 2020, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 18 of 22

iSnustthaienaPbi2liPty 2m02a0r,k1e2,t9i2s3 relatively higher than that in the main grid and the purchasing price is1q6uofit2e0
the opposite. In general, the proposed P2P energy trading mechanism can achieve favorable savings
foofr nheowuseenhoerldgys winidthusPtrVy.syTshteemresfoirnes,taallsecdie,ndteificrceaasnedtrheeaseolencatrbilceitPy2cPosttrsadfoinrgumseorsdeinisthceonmdiucrcoivgeridto,
and realize a win–win situation for prosumers and customers.
encouraging social capital to invest in new energy construction.

Sustainability 2020, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 19 of 22

energy resource, as PV starts producing energy at this period. Owing to the friendly mode of
electricity usage containing PV and BESSs, the PV output abandonment rate is considerably
reduced.

Figure 11. A 24 h operation state of the microgrid.
Figure 11. A 24 h operation state of the microgrid.

4.2. Operational Performance of Prosumers Analysis
The operational performance of prosumerswith PV generation and BESSs is illustrated in Figure 12.

The PV outputs from 7:00 to 17:00 can be divided into four categories according to the method of energy
usage: (1) Self-consumption for prosumers. (2) Charging the battery. (3) Trade in P2P market. (4)
Export to the main grid. P2P energy trading for the distributed generation is a promising
mechanism that enables the surplus energy of prosumers to be consumed in the local area, giving
rise to the revenue of prosumers, helping with electricity cost reduction. As the Chinese
government gradually reduces the subsidy for the new energy feed-in tariffs, the investment of
social capital in the development and construction of new energy is also gradually reducing, which
to some extent hinders the development of new energy industry. Therefore, a scientific and
reasonable P2P trading mode is conducive to encouraging social capital to invest in new energy
construction.

For microgrid users with PV only, the actual operation is similar to that of microgrid users
with PV and BESSs. The power generated by PV production first meets its own needs, and then is
sold to the P2P market to satisfy the demand of peers in the microgrid. If there is any surplus power,
it will be sold to the main grid through the microgrid operator. The difference between the
households with PV and battery is that they do not need to charge the battery. When the electricity
produced by PV cannot meet their own needs, the only way to obtain electricity is to purchase
electricity from the P2P market or the main grid, while the households with battery can meet their
own needs by discharging the battery to reduce electricity expenditure.

In Figure 13, the energy sources of households with PV and BESSs is depicted. From 0:00–6:00
and 16:00–23:00, FPFiVigguursreteo11p22.s.AAfpupppnlilccictaiatoitoinoninncgclalasassinfiifidccaathitoioonnuosofefphphoholodttosovvoopltlrtaeaicficeprpoowtwoeerrgggeeetnneeerralaetticiootnrn.i.city from battery
dischaFrogrem. IifcrtohgisridisunsoetrsewnoituhgPhV, hoonulyse, hthoeldasctwuaillloipmepraotritoneliescstrimiciitlyarftroomthatthoefmmaiicnroggrriidd uusnedresrwtihteh
hPeVlpaonfdmBiEcSroSgs.riTdhoeppeorawtoerr.gFernoemra7te:0d0b–y15P:0V0,pwroedcuacntiosenefitrhsattmheoeutsseihtsolodwsnlikneeetdost,raenatdPthVeansisthseolfdirstot

Figure 13. Sources of power consumption of consumers with PV and battery.



Sustainability 2020, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 19 of 22

energy resource, as PV starts producing energy at this period. Owing to the friendly mode of
electricity usage containing PV and BESSs, the PV output abandonment rate is considerably
reduced.

Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 17 of 20

the P2P market to satisfy the demand of peers in the microgrid. If there is any surplus power, it will be
sold to the main grid through the microgrid operator. The difference between the households with
PV and battery is that they do not need to charge the battery. When the electricity produced by PV
cannot meet their own needs, the only way to obtain electricity is to purchase electricity from the P2P
market or the main grid, while the households with battery can meet their own needs by discharging
the battery to reduce electricity expenditure.

In Figure 13, the energy sources of households with PV and BESSs is depicted. From 0:00–6:00
and 16:00–23:00, PV stops functioning and households prefer to get electricity from battery discharge.
If this is not enough, households will import electricity from the main grid under the help of microgrid
operator. From 7:00–15:00, we can see that households like to treat PV as the first energy resource, as
PV starts producing energy at this period. Owing to the friendly mode of electricity usage containing
PV and BESSs, theFiPgVuroeu1t2p.uAtpapbliacnatdioonncmlaesnsitfircaatteioins ocfopnhsoidtoevraolbtalyicrpeodwuecredge.neration.

Figure 13. Sources of power consumption of consumers with PV and battery.
Figure 13. Sources of power consumption of consumers with PV and battery.

4.3. Operational Performance of Households Only with BESSs Analysis

Figure 14 demonstrates the energy consumption profile of households only with BESSs throughout
the day. We can see that from 0:00–7:00 the primary energy resources of households are battery discharge
and the main grid. During the day, from 8:00–16:00, households purchase electricity from the P2P
market for self-consumption and battery charge. Due to fact that the P2P price is more favorable
than the retail price of the main grid, households prefer to purchase electricity form the P2P market
rather than the main grid. From 17:00–23:00, the P2P trading market is off because PV outputs are not
available and the energy consumed by households comes from battery discharge and the main grid.



Sustainability 2020, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 20 of 22

4.3. Operational Performance of Households Only with BESSs Analysis
Figure 14 demonstrates the energy consumption profile of households only with BESSs

throughout the day. We can see that from 0:00–7:00 the primary energy resources of households are
battery discharge and the main grid. During the day, from 8:00–16:00, households purchase
electricity from the P2P market for self-consumption and battery charge. Due to fact that the P2P
price is more favorable than the retail price of the main grid, households prefer to purchase
electricity form the P2P market rather than the main grid. From 17:00–23:00, the P2P trading market

Siusstoaifnfabbileitcya2u02s0e, 1P2V, 92o3utputs are not available and the energy consumed by households come1s8 forfo2m0
battery discharge and the main grid.

FFiigguurree1144..SSoouurrcceessooffppooweerrccoonnssuumppttiioonnooffccoonnssuumeerrsswwitithhbbaatttteerryy. .

55..CCoonncclluussiioonnss
IInn tthhiissppaappeerr,, aaPP22PPeenneerrggyy ttrraaddiinngg mooddeell iinnmmiiccrrooggrriiddsswwiitthh PPVV aanndd BBEESSSSss iisspprrooppoosseedd..

HHoouusseehhooldldsscocuouldldbrboraodaldylbyebdeivdidiveiddeindtoinfotourfomuarjomr acljaosrseclsa.sAsems.oAngmtohnesge,thhoesues,ehhooludssewhoitlhdsPVwictohuPldV
schoaureldsusrhpalrues esluercptrliucsityelwecitthricoitthyerwpirtohsuomtheerrs.pBraosseudmoenrst.heBcaoseadlitioonn gthame ecothaeliotrioy,nthgeatmraeditnhgeoprryic,etihse
stertabdyincgonpsriidceeriisnsgetthbeymcionnimsiduemrinovgetrhaellmeninerimgyucmonosvuemrapltlioenneirngmy iccornosgurimdsptuionndeirnvmariicoruogsrsicdesnuarnidose.r
Tvhaerimouosdeslceisniallruiosstr.aTtehde imn oadsieml iuslailtliuosntrfaratemdewinoarks.imAsulaarteiosnultf,rathmisewmoecrhk.anAissma froersuPl2tP, tehnisermgyectrhaadniinsgm
pfroormPis2ePs aenloetrfgoyr cthraadnignigngphrooumseisheosldas’lporteffeorrenccheatnogwinagrdhthoeuisreohwolndgs’enperreafteiorennacnedtsoewlfa-crodnstuhmeirptoiownn,
rgeednuecrinatgiothne danepdensdelefn-ccoenosfuthmepdtiisotnri,bureteddugcienngerathtieondoenpseunbdseidnicees, oenf ctohueragdiinstgritbhuetsecdalegoefnperroastiuomnerosn
bsoutbhsiinditehse, beunscionuesrsaganindgththeeressicdaelentoiafl spercotsoursm, aesrssisbtiontghwinithththeebduisstirnibesusteadnadndthreenreewsiadbelentgiaenl esreacttioorns,
ianstseirsmtiintgtenwciythptrhoebldemist,raibnudteednaabnlidngremneowreaebffilecgieennteraantdioenffienctteivrme nitetetwncoyrkpmroobnleimto,rianngd. enabling more
efficLieonotkainndg eaftfeecctoivneonmeitcwaosrpkemctos,niwtoirthingth. e help of the P2P energy trading model, it will lower

houseLhoooldksin’ geleacttreicciotnyoemxpicenadsiptuecrtesa, nwditbhrinthgecohnelspidoerfatbhlee iPn2cPomeeneforgryprtorsaudminegrsm. Iofdthele, hitouwsielhl ollodwiesr
ihnoeulescethroiclidtys’deeleficctireincictyy, ethxepeenxdtriatuerneeargnydgberninegracteodnsbidyePrVabalendinsctoomreedfionr tphreobsuatmteerrys.wIfillthbeehaovuaisleahboleld,
wishiicnh ewleilcltcriuctitdyowdenfitchieenccoys,t othfepuerxcthraasienngeregleyctgriecniteyr.aTtehde BbEySPSsVpaarntdicisptaotriendg iinnPt2hPe ebnaetrtgeyrymwariklletbse
aatvpaeilaakbhleo,uwrshwichillwunillloccuktmdoorwenbetnheefictsosfot rotfhpeuorwchnaesrisnogf BelEeSctSrsi.city. The BESSs participating in P2P
enerAgys fmorarskoectiaslabtepneeafiktsh,oPu2rPsewnielrlguyntlroacdkinmgofroerbtheneedfiiststrfibour ttehde goewnneerarstioonf BisEaSSmse. chanism that shifts

the enAersgfyo, rdesolicviearlinbgeneenfeirtsg,yPi2nPaemnoerregyfletxraibdlienagnfdodr etcheendtriasltirziebdutwedayg, eennearbalitniognthise saumrpelcuhsaenniesrmgythoaft
psrhoisfutsmtheresetonebregcyo,ndseulmiveedriningtehneelrogcyalianreaa.mItowreilfllebxriinbglemanordedsoeccieanltcraapliiztaeldtowtahye,eennearbglyinsgectthoer, rseudrupclues
setnateergfuynodfspirnospuomweerrs itnofbraesctrouncstuumreesd, ainndthfeacloilcitaaltaertehae. Idtewvielllobprminegnmt oofredsisotcriiabluctaepditaanldtortehneewenaebrlgey
esneecrtogry,. reHdeunccee,stPa2teP feunnedrgsyintrpadowinegrwiniflrlalsetarduchtuoruesse,haonlddsfatocilsihtaitfet ftrhoemdecovnelsoupmmeernsttoofpdroissturimbuetresd.
Correspondingly, it will increase the need for equipment for distributed energy generation and BESSs,
assist with redundant capacity elimination, and indirectly give rise to the employment demand.

Note that some shortcomings in this paper are that some factors, including the environmental
benefits, photovoltaic distributed construction costs, and investment recovery cycle, are not considered.
From this point on, factors mentioned above will be taken into account in future research to elevate
existing P2P energy trading models and to inspire the application of P2P technology in the energy sector.



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 19 of 20

Author Contributions: J.D. and H.H. supervised the proposed research work, whereas S.N. conceptualized the
proposed research work, collected the data, programmed and analyzed the methodology, and wrote the original
draft, J.L. and Y.W. helped in review writing and editing with validation of research work. All authors have read
and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by the Beijing Social Science Foundation Research Base Project (18JDGLB037).
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

References

1. Nguyen, S.; Peng, W.; Sokolowski, P.; Alahakoon, D.; Yu, X. Optimizing rooftop photovoltaic distributed
generation with battery storage for peer-to-peer energy trading. Appl. Energy 2018, 228, 2567–2580. [CrossRef]

2. Morstyn, T.; Farrell, N.; Darby, S.J.; McCulloch, M.D. Using peer-to-peer energy-trading platforms to
incentivize prosumers to form federated power plants. Nat. Energy 2018, 3, 94–101. [CrossRef]

3. Long, C.; Wu, J.; Zhou, Y.; Jenkins, N. Aggregated battery control for peer-to-peer energy sharing in a
community Microgrid with PV battery systems. Energy Procedia 2018, 145, 522–527. [CrossRef]

4. Park, C.; Yong, T. Comparative review and discussion on P2P electricity trading. Energy Procedia 2017, 128,
3–9. [CrossRef]

5. Liu, Y.; Wu, L.; Li, J. Peer-to-peer (P2P) electricity trading in distribution systems of the future. Electr. J. 2019,
32, 2–6. [CrossRef]

6. Zhou, Y.; Wu, J.; Long, C. Evaluation of peer-to-peer energy sharing mechanisms based on a multiagent
simulation framework. Appl. Energy 2018, 222, 993–1022. [CrossRef]

7. National Development and Reform Commission, National Energy Administration, a Pilot Approach to
Facilitate the Construction of the Grid-Connected Microgrid. Available online: http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/
2017-07/24/content_5213167.htm (accessed on 23 November 2019).

8. Hamari, J.; Sjöklint, M.; Ukkonen, A. The sharing economy: Why people participate in collaborative
consumption. J. Assoc. Inf. Sci. Technol. 2016, 67, 2047–2059. [CrossRef]

9. Zhang, C.; Wu, J.; Zhou, Y.; Cheng, M.; Long, C. Peer-to-Peer energy trading in a Microgrid. Appl. Energy
2018, 220, 1–12. [CrossRef]

10. Long, C.; Wu, J.; Zhou, Y.; Jenkins, N. Peer-to-peer energy sharing through a two-stage aggregated battery
control in a community Microgrid. Appl. Energy 2018, 226, 261–276. [CrossRef]

11. Zhang, C.; Wu, J.; Cheng, M.; Zhou, Y.; Long, C. A bidding system for peer-to-peer energy trading in a
grid-connected microgrid. Energy Procedia 2016, 103, 147–152. [CrossRef]

12. Ottesen, S.Ø.; Tomasgard, A.; Fleten, S.E. Prosumer bidding and scheduling in electricity markets. Energy
2016, 94, 828–843. [CrossRef]

13. Liu, Y.; Zuo, K.; Liu, X.A.; Liu, J.; Kennedy, J.M. Dynamic pricing for decentralized energy trading in
micro-grids. Appl. Energy 2018, 228, 689–699. [CrossRef]

14. Leong, C.H.; Gu, C.; Li, F. Auction Mechanism for P2P Local Energy Trading considering Physical Constraints.
Energy Procedia 2019, 158, 6613–6618. [CrossRef]

15. PankiRaj, J.S.; Yassine, A.; Choudhury, S. An Auction Mechanism for Profit Maximization of Peer-to-Peer
Energy Trading in Smart Grids. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2019, 151, 361–368. [CrossRef]

16. Tushar, W.; Saha, T.K.; Yuen, C.; Morstyn, T.; McCulloch, M.D.; Poor, H.V.; Wood, K.L. A motivational
game-theoretic approach for peer-to-peer energy trading in the smart grid. Appl. Energy 2019, 243, 10–20.
[CrossRef]

17. Long, C.; Zhou, Y.; Wu, J. A game theoretic approach for peer to peer energy trading. Energy Procedia 2019,
159, 454–459. [CrossRef]

18. Zhang, Z.; Tang, H.; Huang, Q. Risk Implemented Simultaneous Game-Theoretic Approach for Energy
Trading in Residential Microgrids. Energy Procedia 2019, 158, 6679–6686. [CrossRef]

19. Chen, K.; Lin, J.; Song, Y. Trading strategy optimization for a prosumer in continuous double auction-based
peer-to-peer market: A prediction-integration model. Appl. Energy 2019, 242, 1121–1133. [CrossRef]

20. Multi-Objective Problems in YALMIP. Available online: https://yalmip.github.io/multiobjective (accessed on
14 January 2020).

21. Qing, X.; Jie, C.; Xiu, Y. Dynamic economic dispatch of microgrid with different types of distributed
generations. Proc. CSU-EPSA 2013, 25, 22–28.



Sustainability 2020, 12, 923 20 of 20

22. Wang, C.S.; Zheng, H.F.; Xie, Y.H.; Chen, K. Probabilistic power flow containing distributed generation in
distribution system. Dianli Xitong Zidonghua (Autom. Electr. Power Syst.) 2005, 29, 39–44.

23. Guo, J.H. Electric Power System and Automation. Ph.D. Thesis, North China Electric Power University,
Beijing, China, 25 March 2010.

24. Andoni, M.; Robu, V.; Flynn, D.; Abram, S.; Geach, D.; Jenkins, D.; McCallum, P.; Peacock, A. Blockchain
technology in the energy sector: A systematic review of challenges and opportunities. Renew. Sustain. Energy
Rev. 2019, 100, 143–174. [CrossRef]

25. Hayes, B.P.; Thakur, S.; Breslin, J.G. Co-simulation of electricity distribution networks and peer to peer
energy trading platforms. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2020, 115, 105419. [CrossRef]

26. Zhang, C.; Wu, J.; Long, C.; Cheng, M. Review of existing peer-to-peer energy trading projects. Energy
Procedia 2017, 105, 2563–2568. [CrossRef]

27. Ruiz, N.; Cobelo, I.; Oyarzabal, J. A direct load control model for virtual power plant management. IEEE
Trans. Power Syst. 2009, 24, 959–966. [CrossRef]

28. Ye, L.C.; Rodrigues, J.F.; Lin, H.X. Analysis of feed-in tariff policies for solar photovoltaic in China 2011–2016.
Appl. Energy 2017, 203, 496–505. [CrossRef]

29. Long, C.; Wu, J.; Zhang, C.; Thomas, L.; Cheng, M.; Jenkins, N. Peer-to-peer energy trading in a community
microgrid. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE Power & Energy Society General Meeting, Chicago, IL, USA,
16–20 July 2017.

30. Basar, T.; Olsder, G.J. Dynamic Noncooperative Game Theory, 2nd ed.; Siam: Philadelphia, PA, USA, 1999.

© 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution
(CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).