154 IEEE SYSTEMS JOURNAL, VOL. 17, NO. 1, MARCH 2023

Peer-to-Peer Energy Trading for Residential
Prosumers With Photovoltaic and Battery

Storage Systems
Jiatong Wang , Jiangfeng Zhang , Li Li , Member, IEEE, and Yunfeng Lin

Abstract—The popularization of solar generation enables res- fN
σ,H Category variance for households in Category H

k k
idential households to supply their loads and trade the surplus

fN
energy through residential peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading mar- σ,h Individual variance for household h
ket. Facing the increasing complexity of the market structure fN

σ Normalized overall population variance.
and decision-making strategies, this article proposes a P2P energy fN

S Normalized social welfare function.
trading model for residential households, and the objective is to fσ Overall population variance.
help the centralized market coordinator optimize the benefit of
participants under such a P2P market. To this end, a new math- fS Social welfare function.

HB
ematical model, including the rules for buying and selling energy, Number of buyers in P2P market.
is presented. In this model, a supply function bidding mechanism HS Number of sellers in P2P market.
is formulated to match the power supply imbalance and calculate pMCP Clearing price in P2P market.
the market-clearing price. An optimization problem is formulated Qh Net cost of householdhwhen trading in the P2P market.
to identify the optimal strategies for energy buying and selling,
which consists of two parts: the first part is to maximize the xB

h Charging/discharging energy for the household h’s
social welfare; the second part is to minimize the unfair benefit BESS.
distribution that participants can gain through P2P energy trading. xG

h Energy exchange between the retailer and household h
The case study based on the real data for four different household xP2P

h Energy exchange between the P2P market and house-
categories has revealed that households can achieve 26.38% net hold h
cost reduction, and the proposed fair benefit distribution function xP2P
also can fairly allocate the benefit by enforcing households’ benefit total Total energy demand from the P2P market.
variance indexes at a low level. Parameters

Index Terms—Battery energy storage system, peer-to-peer (P2P) H Household categories.
energy trading, residential, smart grid, supply function bidding. ηch

h Charging efficiency.
ηdis
h Discharging efficiency.

NOMENCLATURE Ĉh Cost on buying energy when not attending the proposed
Variables P2P market.
Q̂∗

h Minimum net energy cost when not attending the pro- P̂h Benefit on selling energy when not attending the pro-
posed P2P market. posed P2P market.

Ŝ Overall net cost when households are not trading in the μ1 Weighting factor on social welfare function.
P2P market. μ2 Weighting factor on population variance function.

Ec
x̂G
h (t) Energy exchange between the P2P market and house- h BESS capacity for household h

hold h when households are not trading in the P2P fσ,max Maximum value of fσ
market. fσ,min Minimum value of fσ

Q̃h Cost saving of household h when trading in the P2P fS,max Maximum value of fS
market. fS,min Minimum value of fS

Q̃avg Average cost saving of all households when trading in H Total number of P2P market participants.
the P2P market. h Index for household.

p Electricity trading price with the utility company.
Manuscript received 11 August 2021; revised 28 January 2022 and 26 June pFIT Feed-in-tariff price.

2022; accepted 10 July 2022. Date of publication 26 July 2022; date of current pU Electricity retailing price.
version 24 February 2023.

Jiatong Wang, Li Li, and Yunfeng Lin are with the School of Electrical t Index for time interval.
xB,ch

and Data Engineering, University of Technology Sydney, Broadway, NSW h,max Maximum charging rate.
2007, Australia (e-mail: jiatong.wang@student.uts.edu.au; Li.Li@uts.edu.au;

xB,dis
yunfeng.lin@student.uts.edu.au). h,max Maximum discharging rate.

Jiangfeng Zhang is with the Department of Automotive Engineering, Clemson xL
h Predicted energy consumption.

University, Greenville, SC 29607 USA (e-mail: jiangfz@clemson.edu).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JSYST.2022.3190976 xPV

h Predicted PV generation.

1937-9234 © 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 05,2026 at 21:02:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WANG et al.: P2P ENERGY TRADING FOR RESIDENTIAL PROSUMERS WITH PV AND BATTERY STORAGE SYSTEMS 155

proposed for industrial users to reduce operational costs and
I. INTRODUCTION CO2 emission in [13], where the underlying problem is solved

IN RECENT years, the feed-in-tariff (FIT) program has been using a novel multiagent twin-delayed deep deterministic policy
introduced around the world to promote the ongoing decar- gradient approach. However, since most of the information in the

bonization of electricity systems through the installation of a decentralized market is not transparent, it is hard to evaluate the
range of small-scale renewable generation units for residential community social welfare. Due to the same limitation, service
households [1]. However, the tariff rate has continued to reduce providers also find it challenging to maintain and upgrade the de-
due to the decreased installation costs and limited government centralized power system [14]. On the other hand, the centralized
incentive budget for a large number of new installations [2], [3]. P2P market, such as pool-based market and wholesale electricity
Consequently, residential photovoltaic (PV) owners are facing market, manages the market coordination and information ex-
profit reduction on selling electricity in the traditional manner. change through a centralized market coordinator, who is able to
Given this context, an efficient solution to increase the residential propose the trading strategies for market participants to realize
gain could be achieved by encouraging the use of excess energy the optimal social welfare by solving a global optimization
within neighborhoods. This can be realized by introducing a problem [15]. As a cutting-edge trading concept, the central-
peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading market. Upon the abovemen- ized P2P trading method can be adopted to either residential
tioned background, this article aims to study how residential scenario [16] or industrial scenario [17]. Although such central-
PV owners decide their P2P energy trading strategies to reach ized market architecture requires the complete disclosure of the
the optimal social welfare, where a fair benefit distribution private information to the market coordinator, which may raise
problem is also integrated into the optimal trading strategy to privacy concerns, a novel transaction model proposed in [18] can
evaluate whether the benefit by introducing energy trading is effectively cover this issue by integrating blockchain technology
fairly distributed to every household. and ciphertext-policy attribute-based encryption algorithm.

In the traditional retail market structure, residential PV owners For centralized P2P market, an appropriate trading model is
are only able to individually buy and sell energy with electricity essential as it determines energy trading prices and regulates the
retailers [4]. In this way, PV owners cannot maximize the full bidding and offering rules, which will finally impact the optimal
potentials of the solar system since the extra generated energy energy trading strategies of the market participants [19]. A
is only tradable with electricity retailers, who are profit seekers two-level P2P energy trading model is presented for a prosumer-
and offer low FIT price [5]. To improve the financial benefit of based community in [20] to optimize social welfare, where the
residential prosumers, the P2P trading platform is introduced price competition among sellers is modeled as a noncooperative
as a new market paradigm, where this novel market allows the game, and the sellers’ decision-making is modeled as an evo-
direct energy exchange among residential households and, thus, lutionary game. A supply function equilibrium is formulated
provides more resilience to power systems [6]. Through the P2P to clear the pool-based P2P energy trading in [21], where the
energy trading market, residential households are able to reduce critical improvement in power balance is discussed in the case
energy costs by sharing distributed energy resources (DERs) study by using the proposed clearing mechanism. Moreover, a
with each other. On the other hand, due to the price advantage, supply function bidding method is proposed in [22], which is
the energy generated from local DERs is more attractive than the able to dynamically calculate the market-clearing price (MCP),
energy supplied from electricity retailers [7]. The combination where the effectiveness of the supply function bidding method
of renewable energy and P2P trading market not only helps to is further validated in [23].
relieve the pressure of energy supply for energy retailers during Previous works have adopted different centralized P2P trading
the peak period but also improves the efficiency of the renewable mechanisms to optimize the social welfare. However, the social
usage, making energy supply more ecofriendly [8]. welfare optimization results have no guarantee on fair benefit

In the current research community, the existing P2P trading allocation for market participants. Within a scenario of multiple
approaches can be generally adopted to two scenarios: decen- community microgrids, energy users with BESSs are able to take
tralized P2P market and centralized P2P market. In the decen- more advantages of electricity cost reduction than those people
tralized P2P market, the energy trading is processed directly who do not have such equipment, which may lead to the P2P
by market participants, where a centralized market coordinator market being less attractive [24]. To motivate more energy users
is not required since the energy trading price and quantity are to participate into the P2P market, a benefit distribution problem
determined based on bilateral negotiations [9]. The advantages should also be considered when optimizing social welfare. Prior
of adopting the decentralized P2P market have been explored research on fair benefit distribution for P2P market participants
by many studies. A prominent feature of the decentralized P2P is limited but emerging. For instance, a cost distribution problem
market is privacy protection, which has been tested in micro is proposed in [25], where the Pareto optimality is adopted
power systems [10] and zonal power systems [11]. Moreover, a and solved by an ECO-Trade algorithm. Although enforcing
study in [12] validates that with the limited shared information, Pareto optimality to the proposed model can ensure that no
an optimization of the energy utilization efficiency and the residential prosumers will be worse off to improve the cost
operational cost reduction for each integrated energy system of others, the analysis regarding the fair benefit distribution is
can still be effectively solved using a decentralized alternating not further discussed in the case study. A sharing contribution
direction multiplier method. Regarding the decentralized P2P rate is implemented in [26] to quantify the contribution to the
market design, a decentralized energy trading mechanism is energy sharing and peak shaving for energy users, where the fair

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 05,2026 at 21:02:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



156 IEEE SYSTEMS JOURNAL, VOL. 17, NO. 1, MARCH 2023

benefit distribution problem is further formulated with a Nash
bargaining model. However, the flexibility of the proposed P2P
energy trading market is impacted by the assumption that P2P
trading prices are assured to be constants.

Based on the abovementioned literature review, further study
on a fair trading price mechanism and the evaluation of benefit
allocation are necessary. To this end, this article studies how
a centralized market coordinator determines the strategies of
the market participants to solve the designed social welfare
optimization problem. In addition, a fair benefit distribution
function is applied in the proposed P2P market model to evaluate
if the benefit is fairly allocated to every residential client. Based
on the designed objective, the case study shows that through the Fig. 1. Basic structure of the considered P2P market.
proposed P2P energy trading model and optimization problem,
the centralized market coordinator can achieve different goals
with respect to cost reduction and fair benefit distribution based
on the practical requirement of the market.

The main contributions of this article can be summarized as
follows.

1) A centralized residential P2P energy trading market is
proposed using the supply function method, where the
MCP is codecided by all market participants, ensuring the
fairness and transparency of the residential P2P market.

2) Based on the proposed P2P trading model, the residen-
tial energy trading and BESS management problem is
formulated considering social welfare and fair benefit
distribution.

3) The case study based on the real household data reveals
that on the premise of ensuring fair benefit distribution, a
26.38% net cost reduction is still observed when house-
holds are trading in the proposed P2P market. Moreover,
the market flexibility is further explored to help the central-
ized market coordinator realize different targets on social
welfare and fair benefit distribution by adjusting different
weighting factors.

The rest of this article is organized as follows. The proposed
P2P trading model for residential households, including objec-
tive functions and related constraints, is explained in Section II.
Detailed simulation results are discussed in Section III. Finally,
Section IV concludes this article.

II. DESIGN OF THE RESIDENTIAL P2P TRADING SYSTEM

With the transit position from energy price takers to price
makers, households within the smart grid are allowed to fairly
trade energy through a platform provided by P2P market. In
this article, a PV and BESS-featured smart grid is used as an

Fig. 2. Flowchart of the P2P energy trading strategy.
example to explain the proposed bidding strategy. The schematic
of the proposed system is shown in Fig. 1. Since the data of
PV generation and energy consumption in the case study are
recorded hourly, the sampling time interval in this article is set A. System Description

as 1 h. Therefore, there are 24 time intervals a day (T = 24) In the proposed market, residential households perform the
for the P2P energy trading. Forward sampling is taken here in roles of market participants. During each trading period, trans-
this article, e.g., the first time period within the 24 h is from actions are performed either between households and the utility
0:00 A.M.to 1:00, the second time period is from 1:00 to 2:00, company, or between households. It is assumed that the con-
etc. Notation t (t = 1,2,3...,T) is used to represent these time sidered community is geographically small, and thus, power
periods. transmission losses are ignored. In addition, they are assumed to

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 05,2026 at 21:02:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WANG et al.: P2P ENERGY TRADING FOR RESIDENTIAL PROSUMERS WITH PV AND BATTERY STORAGE SYSTEMS 157

TABLE I
CATEGORIES OF HOUSEHOLDS

own various combinations of BESS and DERs. In our proposed Fig. 3. Household h (h ∈ H1) with energy trading conditions.

system, four categories of households (H ∈ H1, H2, H3, H4)
with different types of facilities are considered, where the details
are given in Table I. xB

h (t){, and p(t) is presented as follows:
In the proposed scenario, a smart meter is installed in every

xP2P
residential house to record the energy generation and consump- h (t) ≥ 0, buying energy from the P2P market
tion. Residential households are also able to make P2P trading xP2P

h (t{) < 0, selling energy to the P2P market
decisions and send to the centralized market coordinator through
the communication between the smart meter and the centralized xB

h (t) ≥ 0, battery is charging
market coordinator. The centralized market coordinator is liable xB

{ h (t) < 0, battery is discharging
to calculate the MCP by collecting the bidding strategies of the
market participants. Then, the centralized market coordinator xG

h (t)) ≥ 0, buying energy from the retailer
announces the successful bids/offers and sends the information xG

h (t)) < 0, {selling energy to the retailer
back to the participants. During the transaction, the centralized
market coordinator acts as an information exchanger and does pU (t), if xG

h (t) ≥ 0
not intervene in the transactions within the market. Thus, the p(t) =

pFIT(t), if xG
h (t) < 0.

fairness of this market can be realized at all times.
1) Objective Function: An objective function fo in (1) is

B. Basic Trading Processes proposed to evaluate the households’ energy trading strategies in
terms of social welfare fS and market fairness index on benefit

In the market structure, households can be either a buyer distribution fσ
or a seller. As an energy buyer, this household can buy the
needed energy from the utility company and through the P2P fo = μ1fS + μ2fσ (1)
market from the sellers who have intention to sell the energy. For
those buyers who own BESS, they are also allowed to consider where weighting factors μ1 and μ2 are nonnegative, and satisfy
discharging BESS for full or partial power supply to the energy
demand. Therefore, the demand for an energy buyer can be from μ1 + μ2 = 1. (2)
the local DERs, the P2P market, the utility company, and the

Since there is a significant difference in the range of numer-
discharge from the BESS. Due to the economic issue, we assume

ical values between social welfare and population variance, we
that buyers are not allowed to sell any energy to the proposed

normalize them to the range [0, 1] to improve the objective sen-
P2P market and the grid. On the other hand, as an energy seller,

sitivity, where the normalized objective is expressed as follows:
this household can sell the energy to either the P2P market or the
utility company to earn the benefit. If this seller owns a BESS, fN

o = μ1f
N
S + μ2f

N
σ (3)

he can also choose to store the extra energy in the BESS. In the
proposed model, it is assumed that energy sellers who own the with
BESS are allowed to sell the energy by discharging their BESSs. {

f
fN S−f
S = S,min

To protect the benefit of buyers and keep the market electricity fS,max−f
− S,min

fN f f (4)
σ = σ σ,min

price stable, sellers are also forbidden to buy electricity from the f .
σ,max−fσ,min

P2P market and the grid.
It is also important to ensure that the net energy cost of a ran-

dom participant through the trading in the proposed P2P market
C. Modeling of the Residential P2P Trading Market is always lower than the optimal cost when this participant is

In this section, we present the structure and the model with not trading in the proposed P2P market, and the corresponding
objective functions and related constraints of the proposed res- mathematical constraint can be found in the following:
idential P2P trading system. An example of the energy flow ∑T
diagram for a household with PV systems and BESS is shown (Q̂∗

h(t)−Qh(t)) ≥ 0 (5)
in Fig. 3. The parameter definition regarding xP2P

h (t), xG
h (t), t=1

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 05,2026 at 21:02:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



158 IEEE SYSTEMS JOURNAL, VOL. 17, NO. 1, MARCH 2023

where for each household category, which is expressed as

Q̂∗
h(t) = arg min Ŝ (6) ∑Hk fσ,h

∑H ∑ fσ,H = (k ∈ [1, 2, 3, 4]). (18)
k

T Hk
h=1

Ŝ = Q̂h(t) (7)
4) Distributed Energy Resources: In the proposed model,

h=1 t=1
solar energy is considered as the DERs where the surplus energy

Q̂h(t) = p(t)x̂G
h (t) (8) can be either sold to other households through the P2P market

Qh(t) = pMCP(t)xP2P
h (t) + p(t)xG or to the energy retailer. According to the conservation law of

h (t). (9)
energy flow (in our model, the line losses are ignored, since the

In (9), the first term represents the cost/benefit when buy- residential households considered in our model are geographi-
ing/selling energy in the P2P market; the second term represents cally close), the following energy constraint would be satisfied:
the cost/benefit when buying/selling energy with the utility com-

xPV
h (t) + xG

h (t) + xP2P
h (t) = xL

h (t) + xB
h (t) (19)

pany. In the proposed model, the value of MCP must be between
the FIT price and grid price to attract customer participation, where
that is {

xB
h (t) = 0, if h ∈ H2, H4

pFIT (20)
(t)< pMCP(t) < pU (t). (10) xPV

h (t) = 0, if h ∈ H3, H4.

Meanwhile, it should be noted, household h could never buy In (19), xPV
h (t) and xL

h (t) are predicted values based on the
and sell electricity at the same time interval. The following historical data, which are nonnegative.
constraint is presented that ensures the buying behavior and 5) State-of-Charge (SOC) Constraints: In the proposed
selling behavior cannot be processed at the same time: model, the SOC of BESS in a household h (h ∈ H1, H3) can be

xP2P modeled as
h (t)× xG

h (t) ≥ 0. (11)
SOC

The optimization problem is to find the best trading strategies SOC h (t− 1)× EC
h +XB

h (t)
h(t) = (21)

EC
for households to minimize the proposed normalized function h

fN
o , which is defined as follows: where {

min fN
o . (12) xB h i xh 0

XB h × ηch f B ≥
h = xB (22)

h B
2) Social Welfare Modeling: In the modeling, the social ηdis if xh < 0

h

welfare is evaluated by the summation of all participants’ net
xB,dis

electricity cost, where the mathematical expression is h,max ≤ xB
h (t) ≤ xB,ch

h,max (23)

∑H ∑T SOCmin
h ≤ SOCh(t) ≤ SOCmax

h . (24)
fS = Qh(t). (13) In (21), SOCh(0) represents the initial SOC for household

h=1 t=1 h’s BESS. For the designed BESS model, charging/discharging
3) Benefit Distribution Modeling: In the P2P energy trading at the same time is prohibited since this behavior would cause

market, it is essential that the earning for participants through unnecessary energy loss.
the P2P energy trading ought to be fairly distributed. To quantify 6) MCP Computation: To make the P2P market fair and
the extent of the fairness of the market, the benefit distribution efficient, MCP is used as the final electricity trading price. In
function is designed to measure the variance between the overall this model, we use supply function method to derive the MCP:
saved cost and the individual saved cost, and the definition is for a seller h at time t, the electricity could be sold to the grid and

∑ P2P market. In this article, it is assumed that each seller defines
H

fσ,h
fσ = (14) the selling strategy by the supply function xP2P

h (t) (xP2P
h (t) < 0),

H then we would apply supply function mechanism to compute the
h=1

MCP. It is assumed that xP2P
h (t) is decided by the P2P market

where electricity price p(t), a variable parameter bh(t), and a constant
f c as follows [27]:
σ,h = (Q̃h − Q̃avg)

2 (15)

∑T xP2P
h (t) = −bh(t)p(t) + c. (25)

Q̃h = (Qh(t)− Q̂∗
h(t)) (16) If the maintenance cost and operation cost of PV systems

t=1 are ignored, the abovementioned supply function can be further
H

1 ∑ simplified as follows:
Q̃avg = Q̃h. (17)

H
h=1 xP2P

h (t) = −bh(t)p(t). (26)

Based on individual variance defined in (15), we further propose At each time interval, buyers would submit their energy de-
the category variance that is used to evaluate the variance index mand from the P2P market to the centralized market coordinator

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 05,2026 at 21:02:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WANG et al.: P2P ENERGY TRADING FOR RESIDENTIAL PROSUMERS WITH PV AND BATTERY STORAGE SYSTEMS 159

TABLE II TABLE III
NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS IN EACH CATEGORY ENERGY UNIT PRICE (AU$/KWH)

and sellers would submit their supply functions [proposed in
(26)] as a bid to the centralized market coordinator. The cen-
tralized market coordinator then clears the market according to
the decisions of participants. For all household buyers at time B. Evaluation of the Net Cost and Variance (μ1 = μ2 = 0.5)
t, the total amount of electricity bought from the P2P market is
expressed as Fig. 4 reveals market participants’ net cost and variance level

defined in (15). Compared with the case without any P2P energy
H∑B(t) trading market, the overall net cost can be saved by 26.38%

xP2P
total(t) = − xP2P

i (t). (27) when households trade in the proposed P2P market. On the
i=1 other hand, such a significant cost reduction is based on the

In the bidding market, MCP is determined when the supply low level of individual variance values, which indicates that the
equals the demand. Hence, (27) is rewritten as saved cost is fairly allocated to each household. Regarding the

performance of the households in each category, the households
pMCP(t) = ∑xP2P

total(t) . (28) in Category H3 and H4 generally have higher net energy costs
HS(t)
j=1 bj(t) than other category households who own PV systems, where

Equation (28) shows that the MCP is proportional to the total the result demonstrates the significant role of DERs in reducing

demand in the P2P trading market. Moreover, according to (26) electricity costs. On the other hand, BESS also plays an essential

and (28), the supply function for household h can be updated as role in reducing energy costs. It is observed that households in
CategoryH2 andH4 have lower variance values than households
in Category H1 and H3, which means that under the scenario of

xP2P
h (t) = −∑bh(t)xP2P

total . (29)
HS(t)
j=1 bj(t) μ1 = μ2 = 0.5, the centralized market coordinator allows more

cost reduction for households with BESS to balance the social
Equation (29) shows that the energy supply of household h to welfare and variance.

P2P market is not only proportional to xP∑2P
total and inversely pro- The role of BESSs can be further explored in Fig. 5, which

portional to the overall bidding strategies HS(t)
j=1 bi(t), but also reveals the SOC level and the average SOC for households in

relevant to this prosumer’s biding option bh(t). Thus, both buy- CategoryH1 andH3. At the first 9 time intervals, the households
ers and sellers are positively to be engaged in the MCP decision. in Category H1 and H3 charge the BESSs, where households

in Category H1 emerge a faster charging speed than households
III. CASE STUDY in Category H3 in the morning time due to the extra generated

In this section, a community microgrid with 40 prosumers is power from PV systems of households in Category H1. After 10

investigated as a case study to validate the proposed model. The A.M., while the average SOC of Category H1 decreases and then

community microgrid is connected to a single utility grid, which keeps around constant from 2 P.M. to 6 P.M. before decreasing

sells energy at the market prices and buys the energy at the FIT till midnight, the average SOC of Category H3 keeps increasing

prices. The specific number of participants are given in Table II. before the night peak time. On the other hand, by comparing
the SOC level in the last few time intervals for Category H1

and H3, households in Category H3 maintain higher average
A. Simulation Setup

SOC. Although the centralized market coordinator suggests such
In the case study, the predicted hourly PV energy demand pro- optimal energy management strategy of SOC to mitigate the

files and the PV generation are based on the Ausgrid dataset [28]. excessive gap of the benefit distribution variance, the households
The capacity of BESS is set to be 4.8 kWh, and the battery SOC with higher SOC levels are able to reduce net energy costs further
is restricted to lie between 10% and 90%. The charging and when the market tends to emphasize more on social welfare
discharging efficiencies are considered to be both 90% [29]. (e.g., μ1 increases and μ2 decreases), where such impact will be
The maximum charging/discharging rate of the battery is 1 kW. analyzed at the end of the case study.
The initial SOC for every SOC owner is set to be 0.1. The real
grid price and FIT price from an Australian electricity retailer,
Red Energy, are applied; see Table III. Since we only consider a C. Evaluation of P2P Energy Trading (μ1 = μ2 = 0.5)

one-day scenario, the battery degradation cost is not included in Fig. 6 investigates the trading prices and quantities in different
this case study. MATLAB built-in function FMINCON is used time intervals over the proposed P2P market. As shown in Fig. 6,
in solving the optimization model, and YALMIP, a MATLAB there are some transactions recorded from the morning to the
toolbox, is also used to translate the model constraints to MAT- afternoon, and the trading quantity has the rising trend until
LAB language [30]. t = 14. This is because households start to generate lots of

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 05,2026 at 21:02:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



160 IEEE SYSTEMS JOURNAL, VOL. 17, NO. 1, MARCH 2023

Fig. 4. Net cost and variance level for every household in each category (µ1 = µ2 = 0.5).

TABLE IV
AVERAGE COST REDUCTION IN EACH HOUSEHOLD CATEGORY

their energy cost as the P2P electricity price is lower than the
traditional utility price. Moreover, the P2P trading quantity starts
the declining trend from t = 14 due to the tense of DERs. There
is no P2P energy transaction between t = 1 and t = 7 since
there is no PV generation. However, P2P transactions are still
recorded in low amounts after t = 20, which is contributed by

Fig. 5. SOC for each household in category H1 and H3. BESS discharging. To realize the cost reduction of households
in Category H2 and H4, the centralized market coordinator
proposes households with BESSs to sell the stored energy to
avoid high utility prices. However, by comparing the average
cost reduction rate of each household category given in Table IV,
it is observed that households with BESSs are still able to reduce
more energy costs than others, demonstrating the key effect of
BESSs on achieving more energy cost reduction with a wise
charging/discharging strategy.

Regarding the MCPs in a day, it can be observed that MCPs are
heavily impacted by the utility selling price. From the morning
to t = 14, MCPs have a decline trend caused by the abundant
PV generation. MCP sharply rises at t = 15 when the utility
price increases from AU$0.2420/kWh to AU$0.5225/kWh, and

Fig. 6. Hourly MCP and total trading quantity over the proposed P2P market. it keeps increasing during the peak time due to the high energy
demand and low manageable DERs.

energy through PV panels, which exceeds their energy demand.
Despite the option to charge the extra energy into the BESS for D. Evaluation of the Energy Trading With the Utility

households equipped with BESS, the households also choose Company (μ1 = μ2 = 0.5)

to sell some energy through the proposed P2P energy trading Fig. 7 shows the energy trading quantity with the local utility
market, expecting more benefits than selling them to the grid company for each household category. Households in Category
at a low FIT price. For those households who buy energy in the H1 take the least energy from the local utility company. This
proposed P2P market, this transaction is also helpful to decrease is because the PV generation can support the energy demand,

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 05,2026 at 21:02:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WANG et al.: P2P ENERGY TRADING FOR RESIDENTIAL PROSUMERS WITH PV AND BATTERY STORAGE SYSTEMS 161

Fig. 7. Total trading quantity with the utility company for each household
category. Fig. 8. Optimization result for population variance function, social welfare,

and objective function.

and BESSs provide sufficient flexibility on demand side man-
agement and arbitrage opportunity. The highest total power
needed from the utility company is recorded at t = 19 during
the peak time. Apart from this, another peak of the total power
needed from the utility company is also recorded in t = 7,
where households in Category H1 and H3 take the lead due
to the BESS charging purpose. By contrast, compared with the
morning and evening time, households need less energy from
the local utility company in the afternoon, where the total energy
trading quantity in the proposed P2P market is the highest in a
day. Through the proposed P2P energy trading market, market

Fig. 9. Optimization results for net cost and variance for each category.
participants have a win–win solution, where energy sellers can
sell the energy with MCPs that are significantly higher than the
flat FIT price, and energy buyers can obtain energy with a price
lower than the utility price. On the other hand, according to increasing, fN

σ becomes bigger than fN
S . Under this scenario, the

Figs. 6 and 7, the local utility company covers the majority of centralized market coordinator will propose the optimal energy
the total energy demand in a day, demonstrating that the local trading and management strategies that emphasize more on a
utility company is still the main contributor to the local energy proper management of cost reduction for market participants.
demand since the generation of the PV system is not stable and More details with respect to net cost and variance for house-
significantly impacted by external factors, such as weather, time, holds in different categories when weighting factors are chang-
and location. ing can be found in Fig. 9. In terms of the net cost, households

in H1 and H3 show a stronger ability to reduce more cost
than other households when μ1 increases. By contrast, although

E. Evaluation of Weighting Factors households without BESSs have a significant cost reduction,
Prior case studies have revealed the performance of the social these households find it harder to further reduce the energy

welfare and variance index for the residential market partici- cost when μ1 increases. This is because households in H2 and
pants. In this section, further investigation will be conducted to H4 are more likely to buy energy from the utility company
analyze how the optimal social welfare and variance index will with high electricity prices due to the limitation of the energy
change when adopting different weighting factors. sources during the night peak time. Regarding the category

First, Fig. 8 illustrates the optimal result of the normalized variance index, which is defined in (18), each household cat-
social welfare, the objective function and the benefit distribution egory shares the similar variance when μ1 is lower than 0.5.
function based on different weighting factors. As shown in Fig. 8, However, with the increase of μ1, the optimal results reveal
whenμ1 is close to one, the community can achieve its minimum higher category variance for households in H3 and H4. When
overall net cost; when μ1 is close to zero, the community can μ1 = 0.9, the category variances for H3 and H4 are at the same
achieve its minimum fair benefit distribution index. On the other level, which are 6.49 and 6.09, respectively. However, similar
hand, when μ1 increases from μ1 = 0.1, the trend of fN

σ is variance levels result in different performances of cost saving.
increasing, but the trend of fN

S is decreasing. However, the value Whenμ1 = 0.9, households inH3 can save AU$4.01 in average,
of fN

σ is always lower than fN
S before μ1 = 0.55, indicating the w∑hile this number for households inH4 is AU$2.21 (obtained by

fair benefit allocation is more important than the participants’ Hk
h=1 Q̃h/Hk). Such discrepancy illustrates the importance of

cost savings in this power system. Moreover, a turning point BESSs in achieving more energy cost reduction for residential
exists at μ1 = 0.55, or equivalently, μ2 = 0.45. When μ1 keeps households through an appropriate BESS management strategy.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 05,2026 at 21:02:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



162 IEEE SYSTEMS JOURNAL, VOL. 17, NO. 1, MARCH 2023

TABLE V [6] K. Moslehi and A. B. R. Kumar, “Autonomous resilient grids in an IoT
TOTAL TRADING QUANTITY OVER THE P2P MARKET WITH DIFFERENT landscape vision for a nested transactive grid,” IEEE Trans. Power Syst.,

WEIGHTING FACTORS vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 4089–4096, Sep. 2019.
[7] G. Sæther, P. C. del Granado, and S. Zaferanlouei, “Peer-to-peer electricity

trading in an industrial site: Value of buildings flexibility on peak load
reduction,” Energy Buildings, vol. 236, 2021, Art. no. 110737.

[8] H. Kim, H. Choi, H. Kang, J. An, S. Yeom, and T. Hong, “A systematic
review of the smart energy conservation system: From smart homes to
sustainable smart cities,” Renewable Sustain. Energy Rev., vol. 140, 2021,

The reasons causing the cost reduction when μ1 increases Art. no. 110755.
vary, but one of the important factors is induced by more trading [9] M. Khorasany, Y. Mishra, and G. Ledwich, “A decentralized bilateral

energy trading system for peer-to-peer electricity markets,” IEEE Trans.
activity in the proposed P2P energy trading market. Table V Ind. Electron., vol. 67, no. 6, pp. 4646–4657, Jun. 2020.
tabulates the overall energy trading quantity under the scenarios [10] M. Qu, T. Ding, W. Jia, S. Zhu, Y. Yang, and F. Blaabjerg, “Distributed
of different weighting factors. It is observed that when μ1 goes optimal control of energy hubs for micro-integrated energy systems,”

IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern. Syst., vol. 51, no. 4, pp. 2145–2158,
bigger, households are suggested to trade more energy in the Apr. 2021.
proposed P2P energy market to achieve lower overall net cost. [11] T. Ding, Q. Yang, Y. Wen, Y. Ning, Y. Yang, and F. Blaabjerg, “Zonally

robust decentralized optimization for global energy interconnection: Case
study on northeast asian countries,” IEEE Trans. Automat. Sci. Eng.,

IV. CONCLUSION vol. 17, no. 4, pp. 2120–2129, Oct. 2020.
[12] C. Mu, T. Ding, M. Qu, Q. Zhou, F. Li, and M. Shahidehpour, “Decentral-

In this article, a residential P2P energy trading system ized optimization operation for the multiple integrated energy systems with
and relevant rules are proposed for residential households. In energy cascade utilization,” Appl. Energy, vol. 280, 2020, Art. no. 115989.
the P2P trading market, the proposed model considers four [13] T. Chen, S. Bu, X. Liu, J. Kang, F. R. Yu, and Z. Han, “Peer-to-peer energy

trading and energy conversion in interconnected multi-energy microgrids
categories of participants: households with RESs and BESS, using multi-agent deep reinforcement learning,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid,
households with RESs only, households with BESS only, and vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 715–727, Jan. 2022.
households with none of the RES or BESS. In the proposed [14] H. Wu et al., “Data management in supply chain using blockchain: Chal-

lenges and a case study,” in Proc. IEEE 28th Int. Conf. Comput. Commun.
market, participants decide the energy procurement to enable Netw., 2019, pp. 1–8.
them from traditional passive energy receivers to active market [15] A. Esmat, M. de Vos, Y. Ghiassi-Farrokhfal, P. Palensky, and D. Epema, “A
participants, and the energy sellers decide the amount of energy novel decentralized platform for peer-to-peer energy trading market with

blockchain technology,” Appl. Energy, vol. 282, 2021, Art. no. 116123.
sold through P2P market by a supply function mechanism. The [16] T. Morstyn and M. McCulloch, “Multi-class energy management for
market clearing prices are codetermined by buyers and sellers peer-to-peer energy trading driven by prosumer preferences,” IEEE Trans.
to ensure the fairness and transparency of the proposed P2P Power Syst., vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 4005–4014, Sep. 2019.

[17] C. Dang, J. Zhang, C.-P. Kwong, and L. Li, “Demand side load manage-
market. Based on the proposed model, this article formulates ment for big industrial energy users under blockchain-based peer-to-peer
the objective function that considers both social welfare and fair electricity market,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 6426–6435,
benefit distribution. Simulation results show that the proposed Nov. 2019.

[18] Z. Guan, X. Lu, W. Yang, L. Wu, N. Wang, and Z. Zhang, “Achieving
trading mechanism can efficiently reduce the electricity bills for efficient and privacy-preserving energy trading based on blockchain and
households and ensure the fairness of the revenue distribution. ABE in smart grid,” J. Parallel Distrib. Comput., vol. 147, pp. 34–45,
For example, when μ 2021.

1 = 0.5, 26.38% of the total cost saving
[19] O. Abrishambaf, F. Lezama, P. Faria, and Z. Vale, “Towards transactive

can be achieved during keeping the fair benefit distribution energy systems: An analysis on current trends,” Energy Strategy Rev.,
at a low level. Essentially, the centralized market coordinator vol. 26, 2019, Art. no. 100418.
can realize different targets on social welfare and fair benefit [20] A. Paudel, K. Chaudhari, C. Long, and H. B. Gooi, “Peer-to-peer energy

trading in a prosumer-based community microgrid: A game-theoretic
distribution by adjusting different weighting factors, reflecting model,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 66, no. 8, pp. 6087–6097,
the strong flexibility of the proposed model. Aug. 2019.

In future work, the proposed market will be investigated by [21] M. Zhang, F. Eliassen, A. Taherkordi, H.-A. Jacobsen, H.-M. Chung, and
Y. Zhang, “Energy trading with demand response in a community-based

considering communication delays. Besides, the uncertainty of P2P energy market,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun., Control, Comput.
the energy demand and PV outputs would be considered to Technol. Smart Grids, 2019, pp. 1–6.
enhance the accuracy of the results. [22] M. M. Jalali and A. Kazemi, “Demand side management in a smart grid

with multiple electricity suppliers,” Energy, vol. 81, pp. 766–776, 2015.
[23] N. Li, L. Chen, and M. A. Dahleh, “Demand response using linear supply

REFERENCES function bidding,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 1827–1838,
Jul. 2015.

[1] D. N.-Y. Mah et al., “Policy mixes and the policy learning process of energy [24] N. K. Meena, J. Yang, and E. Zacharis, “Optimisation framework for
transitions: Insights from the feed-in tariff policy and urban community the design and operation of open-market urban and remote community
solar in Hong Kong,” Energy Policy, vol. 157, 2021, Art. no. 112214. microgrids,” Appl. Energy, vol. 252, 2019, Art. no. 113399.

[2] L. Poruschi, C. L. Ambrey, and J. C. Smart, “Revisiting feed-in tar- [25] M. R. Alam, M. St-Hilaire, and T. Kunz, “Peer-to-peer energy trading
iffs in Australia: A review,” Renewable Sustain. Energy Rev., vol. 82, among smart homes,” Appl. Energy, vol. 238, pp. 1434–1443, 2019.
pp. 260–270, 2018. [26] J. Wang, H. Zhong, C. Wu, E. Du, Q. Xia, and C. Kang, “Incentivizing

[3] N. Martin and J. Rice, “The solar photovoltaic feed-in tariff scheme in distributed energy resource aggregation in energy and capacity markets:
New South Wales, Australia,” Energy Policy, vol. 61, pp. 697–706, 2013. An energy sharing scheme and mechanism design,” Appl. Energy, vol. 252,

[4] S. Jiang, C. Wan, C. Chen, E. Cao, and Y. Song, “Distributed photovoltaic 2019, Art. no. 113471.
generation in the electricity market: Status, mode and strategy,” CSEE J. [27] S. Cló, A. Cataldi, and P. Zoppoli, “The merit-order effect in the Italian
Power Energy Syst., vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 263–272, 2018. power market: The impact of solar and wind generation on national

[5] J. Koskela, A. Rautiainen, and P. Järventausta, “Using electrical en- wholesale electricity prices,” Energy Policy, vol. 77, pp. 79–88, 2015.
ergy storage in residential buildings–sizing of battery and photovoltaic [28] Ausgrid, Solar home electricity data.” [Online]. Available: https:
panels based on electricity cost optimization,” Appl. Energy, vol. 239, //www.ausgrid.com.au/Industry/Innovation-and-research/Data-to-
pp. 1175–1189, 2019. share/Solar-home-electricity-data

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 05,2026 at 21:02:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WANG et al.: P2P ENERGY TRADING FOR RESIDENTIAL PROSUMERS WITH PV AND BATTERY STORAGE SYSTEMS 163

[29] I. Dusparic, A. Taylor, A. Marinescu, F. Golpayegani, and S. Clarke, Li Li (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. degree from
“Residential demand response: Experimental evaluation and comparison the Huazhong University of Science and Technol-
of self-organizing techniques,” Renewable Sustain. Energy Rev., vol. 80, ogy, Wuhan, China, in 1996, the M.S. degree from
pp. 1528–1536, 2017. Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in 1999, and

[30] J. Lofberg, “YALMIP: A toolbox for modeling and optimization in MAT- the Ph.D. degree from the University of California,
LAB,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Automat., 2004, pp. 284–289. Los Angeles, CA, USA, in 2005, all in electrical

engineering.
From 2005 to 2007, he was a Research Associate

with the University of New South Wales, Kensing-
Jiatong Wang received the B.E. degree in con- ton, NSW, Australia, at the Australian Defence Force
trol engineering from Southwest Jiaotong University, Academy (UNSW@ADFA). From 2007 to 2011, he
Chengdu, China, in 2015, and the M.E. degree in was a Researcher with National ICT Australia, Victoria Research Labora-
electrical engineering from the University of Sydney, tory, Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, The University of
Sydney, NSW, Australia, in 2018. He is currently Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. In 2011, he joined the University of
working toward the Ph.D. degree in electrical engi- Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia, where he is currently an Associate
neering with the University of Technology Sydney, Professor. He held several visiting positions at various universities. His research
Sydney, NSW, Australia. interests include power systems and control theory.

His research interests include power system oper- Dr. Li is currently an Associate Editor for the IET Renewable Power Gener-
ation and planning, demand-side management, and ation, IET Generation, Distribution and Transmission, and IET Smart Grid.
peer-to-peer energy trading market.

Jiangfeng Zhang received the B.Sc. and Ph.D. de-
grees in computing mathematics from Xi’an Jiaotong
University, Xi’an, China, and the Ph.D. degree in elec- Yunfeng Lin received the B.E. degree from the
tronic and electrical engineering from the University University of Electronic Science and Technology of
of Strathclyde, Glasgow, U.K. China, Chengdu, China, in 1998, and the M.I.T degree

He is currently an Associate Professor with Clem- from the University of Technology Sydney, Sydney,
son University, Clemson, SC, USA. His research Australia. He is currently working toward the Ph.D
interests include electric vehicles, smart grid, and degree in electrical engineering with the University
renewable energy. of Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Dr. Zhang is an Associate Editor for the IET Smart
Grid and IET Renewable Power Generation, a Fellow

of IET, and a Member of IFAC TC6.3 on Power and Energy Systems.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 05,2026 at 21:02:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.