Renewable Energy 207 (2023) 177–193

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 

Renewable Energy 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/renene 

Peer-to-peer energy sharing and trading of renewable energy in smart 
communities ─ trading pricing models, decision-making and 
agent-based collaboration 
Yuekuan Zhou a,b,c,d,*, Peter D. Lund e 

a Sustainable Energy and Environment Thrust, Function Hub, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou), Nansha, Guangzhou, 511400, 
Guangdong, Hong Kong, China 
b Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, China 
c HKUST Shenzhen-Hong Kong Collaborative Innovation Research Institute, Futian, Shenzhen, Hong Kong, China 
d Division of Emerging Interdisciplinary Areas, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, China 
e Department of Applied Physics, School of Science, Aalto University, P.O.Box 15100, FI-00076, Aalto, Espoo, Finland   

A R T I C L E  I N F O   A B S T R A C T   

Keywords: Peer-to-peer (P2P) energy sharing can complement other energy management strategies needed in the energy 
Peer-to-peer (P2P) energy sharing and trading transition to clean energy such as renewables. The recent advances in artificial intelligence, machine learning 
Trading pricing and internet of things can provide cutting-edge solutions to dynamic information interaction and power ex
Blockchain change, enabling efficient P2P energy sharing and trading schemes. However, the current electricity market fails 
Machine learning 
Decision-making to comprehensively consider devices degradation costs and transmission losses, fairness distribution and allo
Multi-stakeholders cation on cost-benefit model, synergistic collaborations and operations for different stakeholders. Here, a 

comprehensive review on P2P energy sharing and trading is presented covering novel system configurations, 
energy sharing and marginal/trading price mechanisms, and decision-making in dynamic P2P energy trading 
combined with synergistic collaboration and operation among key stakeholders. Significances of this review 
include comprehensive consideration on internal trading pricing, fairness distribution and allocation with active 
participation in P2P energy sharing, synergistic collaborations and operations with mutual economic benefits. 
Modelling tools for P2P energy trading platforms for real applications are also reviewed. The review shows that 
P2P when optimally designed can provide win-win economic benefits to all related stakeholders such as pro
sumers, consumers, retailers, and aggregators with fair access to distributed energy resources. The P2P energy 
sharing can improve the system efficiency, reduce energy storage capacity and primary energy consumption, 
improve renewable penetration, avoid energy quality devaluation and mitigate stressed grid power together with 
voltage support and congestion management for the local power grid. Employing blockchain technology im
proves the automation level in P2P thus decreasing human interactions improving the security with transparent, 
tamper-proof and secure systems, and accelerating real-time settlements with smart contracts. Synergistic 
collaboration and operation among stakeholders can ensure economic benefits for each participant, fair energy 
distribution and cost allocation, and decrease reliance on retailers or aggregators. The results presented provide 
cutting-edge guidelines for increasing the use and acceptance of smart and fair P2P energy sharing and trading 
frameworks.   

system scale, renewable energy systems can be classified into centralized 
1. Introduction (e.g. PV and wind farms) and decentralized power systems (e.g. building 

mounted wind turbines, building integrated PV). Compared to the 
Deployment of renewable energy and improvement in energy effi centralized systems, the decentralized power systems [1] show advan

ciency [1] an effective carbon offset strategy, which can contribute to tages through avoiding investments and losses in long-distance power 
achieving carbon-neutrality targets worldwide. Depending on the transmission, high space utilization for renewable energy supply, 

* Corresponding author. Sustainable Energy and Environment Thrust, Function Hub, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou), Nansha, 
Guangzhou, 511400, Guangdong, Hong Kong, China. 

E-mail addresses: yuekuanzhou@ust.hk, yuekuan.zhou@outlook.com (Y. Zhou).  

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2023.02.125 
Received 26 May 2022; Received in revised form 6 November 2022; Accepted 25 February 2023   
Available online 2 March 2023
0960-1481/© 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

been studied, e.g. in terms of market paradigms and approaches for price 
Nomenclature forming, theory-based pricing mechanisms, and price-based energy 

management for profit maximization. Zhou et al. [20] compared the 
Abbreviations economic performance between the supply and demand ratio (SDR), 
BIPVs Building Integrated Photovoltaics mid-market rate and bill sharing methods. The self-consumption can be 
BS Bill Sharing improved and peak demand hours can be reduced by P2P trading [21]. 
BNE Bayesian Nash equilibrium The proposed model improved in the community and reduced the. 
CDA Continuous double auction Tushar et al. [22] adopted the mid-market rate as the pricing mechanism 
DRL Deep reinforcement learning for P2P trading for coalition stability and prosumers’ benefits. Bill 
DSO Distribution system operator sharing strategy [23] is effective for P2P energy sharing. Theories for 
ELM Extreme Learning Machine dynamic pricing mainly include game theory, auction theory and bar
ESP Energy sharing provider gaining theory. Bhatti and Broadwater [24] developed a 
ECO Energy Cost Optimization non-cooperative game model with Nash equilibrium to promote market 
EI Equality index reliability and fairness. However, the internal trading pricing approach 
MDP Markov Decision Process used in academia fails to consider the associated costs with renewable 
MMR Mid-Market Rate energy system depreciation, energy transmission loss and associated 
ML Machine Learning infrastructures. Furthermore, the cost-benefit models for P2P energy 
P2G Power-to-grid sharing considering fairness distribution and allocation strategies are 
PV Photovoltaics rare to eliminate inequality and encourage the participation willingness 
PISO Prediction-integration strategy optimization of stakeholders. 
P2P Peer-to-peer Decision-making approaches on dynamic P2P energy trading can be 
PI Participation willingness index classified into rule-based P2P energy trading [25], stochastic 
SDR Supply and demand ratio decision-making approach [26], dynamic iteration-based decision-
VTI Value tapping index  making [27] and machine learning based market prediction [28]. By 

adopting Nash-type game theory, Jing et al. [25] investigated fair 
pricing strategies for energy trading within a small community. The 
optimized variables included energy trading behavior, operational 

flexible ownership by either building owners or investors, etc. Further strategy, and demand response schedule. In order to partly offset wind 
more, power supply from the decentralized renewable systems can power deviation, Vahedipour-Dahraie et al. [26] adopted a stochastic 
provide peer-to-peer (P2P) energy sharing [2,3] and cover stochastic decision-making approach to determine the optimal energy purchase 
energy demand of district buildings to overcome the spatiotemporal and reserve capacity offering to a wind power producer. By adopting the 
intermittence in renewable energy supply thus also reducing the power bilevel stochastic model (i.e., the upper level maximizes the wind power 
fluctuations and ramping rate of electricity in the grid. Compared to producer’s profits and the lower level minimizes demand response 
other energy management strategies such as demand-side management, aggregators’ costs.), the cost-optimal strategy could be developed for 
power-to-X conversion and energy storage, the P2P energy sharing helps P2P energy trading. However, a comprehensive review of trading stra
to avoid power losses during battery charging process, energy quality tegies and dynamic decision-making approaches is still rare. Further
losses n the power-to-X conversion process, unfair access to distributed more, dynamic power trading and internal sell/buy price face the 
energy resources [4,5], grid infrastructure limits, and it has a high po convergence challenge to reach equilibrium. 
tential for mitigating the stress from grid import/export. However, for There are several review articles in the field, and the limitation of the 
low-carbon energy transition, the P2P energy sharing is highly depen existing review papers are listed in Table 1. Researchers mainly focused 
dent on public preferences, engagement and participation willingness in on advanced business model [29], market designs [3], smart contracts 
energy futures [6,7]. and auction [30], optimal P2P energy sharing schedule [31], and in

The main objectives of P2P energy sharing are to cover stochastic centives for P2P energy trading [32]. However, associated costs (like 
energy demands with high penetration of renewable energy, stabilize depreciation of renewable systems, battery degradation), fairness dis
the grid power under integration of intermittent renewable energy tribution, synergistic collaborations and operations have not been suf
supply and improve the economic performance. The underlying mech ficiently studied. 
anism is to cover the demand of neighborhood buildings with surplus Based on the above-mentioned literature review, several knowledge 
renewable energy in a geographically different building. The main ad and scientific gaps were noticed.  
vantages of P2P energy sharing mainly include system efficiency im
provements [8], reduction in required energy storage capacity [9] and • In terms of peer-to-peer energy sharing and trading, the internal 
primary energy consumption [9], high renewable penetration with trading pricing approach often fails to consider the costs associated 
decreased energy loss in storage and transmission processes [10], to renewable system depreciation, energy transmission losses and 
avoidance on devaluation of energy quality and mitigated grid pressure associated infrastructures;  
for energy interactions [11]. P2P based electricity market design can • Cost-benefit models for P2P energy sharing fail to address fairness 
promote the decarbonization with renewable and storage technologies distribution and allocation, leading to unfairness and willingness of 
[12], improve system efficiency [13], reliable trading with PV forecast stakeholders; 
error and uncertainty [14], and reduce losses, voltage support and • In terms of convergence towards dynamic pricing equilibrium, syn
congestion management for local power grid [15]. Simulation tools ergistic collaborations and operations are necessary for mutual 
mainly include MATLAB/Simulink [16], TRNSYS [9], Python/Matlab economic benefits, whereas the current literature is very limited. 
Interface [17] and Homer [18]. In terms of the cogeneration energy 
sharing of surplus heat and electricity, Hirvonen et al. [9] indicated that The originality and novelty of this study address above-mentioned 
cogeneration energy sharing strategy can reduce the required storage scientific gaps.  
capacity and primary energy consumption by 1–9%. The price-based 
demand response strategy can guide the dynamic energy sharing with • A state-of-the-art progress and development on P2P trading, in 
cost saving and improved PV sharing [16]. particular in terms of decentralized system formulation, modelling 

Internal trading pricing with utility business models [19] has widely and energy sharing mechanism, approaches for marginal/trading 

178



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

Table 1 
Summary and comparison of state-of-the-art review papers.  

Studies System Results Contribution Limitation 

Capper Community differences and similarities on energy Five gaps are clearly provided: 1) physical Fails to consider the costs associated to 
et al. market models constraints; 2) market design & operation; 3) renewable system depreciation, energy 
[33] scalability; 4) information security; 5) market transmission losses and associated 

participant privacy. infrastructures 
Tushar peer-to-peer retailers’ involvement in electricity An advanced business model with collective benefits Lack of fairness distribution and allocation 

et al. market market with decision-making to shift the unwillingness to willingness in P2P strategies to encourage stakeholders’ 
[29] characteristics market participation participation 

Tushar connected pilot project on P2P trading P2P sharing in electricity market Fail to consider degradation costs, no fairness 
et al. communities distribution and allocation, and no 
[34] synergistic collaborations 

Sousa et al. P2P in P2P is more popular in consumer- Motivation, market designs and potential challenges No degradation costs, no fairness distribution 
[3] community centric market in P2P market and allocation 

markets 
Vieira and microgrid blockchain technologies and agent- autonomous P2P energy trading with smart No synergistic collaborations and operations 

Zhang based system are critical technologies contracts and auction 
[30] for P2P energy trading 

Chen et al. dynamic optimal P2P energy sharing schedule, The proposed network structure is effective in No fairness distribution and allocation 
[31] network network operations and energy energy efficiency and cost saving. strategies 

structures utilization 
Zhou et al. P2P energy market design, trading platforms, Role and responsibility of prosumers; taxes, fees and No synergistic collaborations and operations  

[32] trading physical infrastructure, information incentives for P2P energy trading, vulnerable 
and communication technology customers protection 

price. P2P based electricity market design approaches are reviewed trading before going through more details. 
to promote the decarbonization, improve system efficiency, reliable 
trading with PV forecast error and uncertainty, provide loss reduc 2.1. Research framework 
tion, voltage support and congestion management for local power 
grid;  Peer-to-peer energy sharing and trading show many benefits over 

• Dynamic power trading strategies and decision-making approaches demand-side management, power-to-X conversion and energy storage, 
are also systematically reviewed targeting towards to find an equi including decrease in power loss and energy quality, high renewable 
librium between the dynamic power trading quantity and internal penetration. A state-of-the-art review is conducted as shown in Fig. 1. 
sell/buy price;  There are four main parts, including novel system configuration, 

• Synergistic collaborations and operations between multi- modelling and energy sharing mechanism, approaches for marginal/ 
stakeholders were reviewed to better understand the mutual eco trading price, decision-making on dynamic P2P energy trading, syner
nomic benefits, including prosumer-centric and consumer-centric gistic collaborations and operations. The P2P energy trading platform 
energy trading, retailer and utility company, agent-based tech normally consists of distributed renewable systems, prosumers, con
niques in energy sharing and economic dispatch. sumers, electrochemical battery, hydrogen storage and plug-in electric 

vehicles. Modelling tools for P2P energy trading platform mainly 
This review is divided into four main sections. The first section gives include MATLAB/Simulink [35,36], TRNSYS [37,38] and Python tools 

a comprehensive literature review on novel system configurations, [8]. As the driving force for dynamic energy trading behavior, margin
modelling and energy sharing mechanism in a district energy commu al/trading pricing making approaches include market paradigms and 
nity. In the second section, approaches for marginal/trading pricing and theory-based pricing. The former mainly include supply and demand 
theory-based pricing for P2P sharing are systematically reviewed. The ratio (SDR), Mid-Market Rate (MMR) and Bill Sharing (BS) methods 
marginal/trading pricing approaches include supply and demand ratio, [20], and the latter mainly include game theory [24], auction 
mid-market rate and bill sharing methods. Theory-based pricing ap theory-based pricing [39] and bargaining theory-based pricing [40]. 
proaches mainly include game theory, auction theory-based pricing and However, the associated costs need to be considered in the internal 
bargaining theory-based pricing. In the third section, strategies for dy pricing making process such as renewable system depreciation, energy 
namic P2P energy trading and decision-making are reviewed from the transmission loss, associated infrastructures (e.g., battery), etc. During 
perspectives of rule-based, stochastic decision-making, dynamic itera the dynamic energy trading process, decision-making approaches on 
tion and machine learning based market prediction. In the fourth sec dynamic P2P energy trading can mainly be classified into rule-based P2P 
tion, multi-stakeholders based synergistic collaborations and operations energy trading, stochastic decision-making approach [26], dynamic 
are reviewed to ensure economic benefit of each participant, fair energy iteration-based decision-making [27] and machine-learning based 
distribution and cost allocation, decreased reliance on retailers or market prediction [28]. In addition, considering the diversity in energy 
aggregators and so on. Lastly, challenges, outlook and recommendations use behavior of consumers and intermittency of renewable energy 
on P2P energy trading in the electricity market are provided. This re generation, synergistic collaboration and operation will be reviewed 
view can provide cutting-edge guidelines for increasing the use and among prosumers and consumers to improve mutual economic benefits. 
acceptance of smart and fair P2P energy sharing and trading 
frameworks. 

2.2. System assessment criteria 
2. Methods 

Value tapping index. System assessment criteria for P2P energy 
This section aims to provide an overview research framework, sys sharing include economic indices (i.e., the value tapping index, partic

tem assessment criteria and underlying mechanism of dynamic ipation willing and equality) and technical indices (i.e. energy balance, 
iteration-based decision-making. The objective is to provide readers an power flatness and self-sufficiency). The value tapping index (VTI) is a 
overall concept and preliminary recognition on P2P energy sharing and nondimensional index to assess whether the P2P energy sharing is 

economical competitive or not. The mathematical equation of VTI is 

179



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

Fig. 1. A holistic overview of the research framework. Four main areas are included, i.e., I) novel system configuration, modelling and energy sharing mechanism; II) 
approaches for marginal/trading price; III) decision-making on dynamic P2P energy trading; IV) synergistic collaborations and operations. 

shown in Eq. (1). ∑N ∑N
|incom

value EI = 1 − n=1 m=1 en − incomem|
∑ (

2N N 3) 
VTI P2P sharing − valuenon− P2P sharing

= (1)  
valuemax − value m=1incomen

non− P2P sharing
In term of technical indices, the energy balance index quantifies the 

where the valueP2P sharing and valuenon− P2P sharing refer to total income of dynamic energy equilibrium between renewable, demand, storage and 
prosumers under P2P energy sharing without P2P energy sharing. power grid. Power flatness measures the stability of dynamic power in 

Participation willingness index (PI). The participation willingness the energy system. The self-sufficiency refers to the proportion of energy 
index (PI) refers to the proportion of prosumers with more economic demands covered by renewable energy in the P2P energy sharing 
benefits in P2P energy sharing. The mathematical equation is shown in framework. 
Eq. (2). 

N
PI lower,cost

= (2)  2.3. Dynamic iteration-based decision-making for P2P energy trading 
N

where N In the P2P energy trading platform driven by transaction prices, 
lower,cost refers to total number of participators with lower cost in 

the P2P energy sharing than that without P2P energy sharing. N is the mutual influence between energy trading price and transacted energy 
total number of prosumers. quantity can be noticed, i.e., the internal P2P energy trading price is 

Equality index (EI). The equality index (EI) quantifies the income dependent on the surplus renewable energy, demand shortage, the real 
distribution among prosumers and reflects the income equality within transacted energy between peers, and so on. Meanwhile, the real 
the population, as calculated by Eq. (3): transacted energy between peers is dependent on the dynamic P2P en

ergy trading price. Therefore, quantity and price-based dynamic itera
tions are necessary for decision-making on P2P power trading flows 

Fig. 2. Schematic diagram for P2P sharing community with integrated transportation systems: (a) with intermediate retailers; (b) automatic energy trading platform 
without intermediate retailer. 

180



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

between different participators. Fig. 2 shows a schematic diagram for with the Bayesian Nash equilibrium (BNE) algorithm to identify the 
P2P sharing community with integrated transportation systems. In the dynamic pricing. By adopting the call-auction method, participants’ 
system with intermediate retailers, as shown in Fig. 2(a), in order to get profit of with-game-theory can be improved. 
economic profits, the retailer will purchase low-price electricity from 
utility grid or distributed renewable systems, and sell it to building 3.2. Modelling development, simulation tools and constraints 
owners with load shortage at a high price. In the system without inter
mediate retailers, as shown in Fig. 2(b), the economic profits are only In order to set up the P2P energy sharing platform, simulation tools 
allocated between building owners and utility power company. mainly include MATLAB/Simulink [16], TRNSYS [9], Python/Matlab 

(Note: G2B/B2G refer to grid-to-building and building-to-grid. G2V Interface [17] and Homer [18]. Table 3 summarises the modelling 
refers to grid-to-vehicle. Cimp and Cexp refer refer to power cost of grid development and simulation tools on P2P energy sharing. Based on the 
import and export; Csell,P2P and Cbuy,P2P refer to selling and buying prices in P2P blockchain-based distributed double auction trade mechanism, Hayes 
energy trading; Csell,EVs and Cbuy,EVs refer to selling and buying prices of EVs.) et al. [17] co-simulated power distribution networks with P2P energy 

trading. Thakur et al. [49] developed coalition formation algorithms for 
3. Novel system configuration, modelling and energy sharing energy trade among microgrids, under the blockchain mechanism. Re
mechanism sults showed that compared to a centralized coalition formation algo

rithm, the distributed algorithm is superior in convergence, coalition 
This section aims to holistically review system configuration, structure and scalability. Yebiyo et al. [50] studied dynamic energy 

modelling and assessment criteria, together with market design. The transactions between consumers and prosumers to improve the eco
objective is to provide readers a systematic approach for multi-energy nomic benefits. Results showed that the cost savings are 6.4% and 49.1% 
system configuration, mathematical modelling tools, multi-metric for consumers and prosumers, respectively. In terms of the cogenerative 
assessment criteria and P2P market design. energy sharing on surplus heat and electricity, Hirvonen et al. [9] 

indicated that the cogenerative energy sharing strategy can reduce the 
3.1. Source-grid-load-storage framework with structural configurations storage capacity and primary energy consumption by 1–9%. The 

price-based demand response strategy can provide guidelines on dy
With widespread deployment of distributed renewable systems, P2P namic energy sharing with cost saving and improved PV penetration 

energy sharing with battery and hydrogen storages [41] is an effective [16]. 
strategy to improve the self-consumption of renewable energy [42], 
enhance the self-sufficiency of district demands [37], and stabilize the 3.3. Energy sharing mechanism and system assessment criteria 
power of local micro-grid [38]. Soto et al. [43] comprehensively 
reviewed the current status and challenges for P2P energy trading. This The ultimate objective for P2P energy sharing is to overcome the 
review stressed P2P energy trading with multidisciplinary collaboration. spatiotemporal intermittence in renewable energy supply due to uneven 
Research literature have often focused on residential P2P energy sharing distribution of renewable energy resources considering the stochastic 
networks consisting of distributed renewable systems (e.g., solar PV, characteristics of the energy demand of buildings. The underlying 
wind turbine, etc.), battery storage and plug-in vehicles, for cost profit mechanism is to cover demands of neighborhood buildings with surplus 
improvement of participants and ancillary services provision. energy from a geographically different building. 

Table 2 lists several P2P energy sharing systems with different ap Liu et al. [53] adopted VTI to analyse the economic performance of 
proaches and energy sharing mechanisms. Zepter et al. [44] studied different micro-grids in terms of congestion mitigation and network loss 
synergistic functions between peer-to-peer trade and residential storage reduction. Long et al. [54] developed a two-stage aggregated battery 
for P2P energy sharing. By adopting a two-stage stochastic programming control for micro-grid based P2P energy sharing. Hahnel et al. [55] 
approach and the sequenced decision-making under renewable gener studied participation willingness in P2P networks. In the case study with 
ation and spot prices, the P2P trade and battery storage can contribute to tailored policy instruments, 77.4% of participants show high willingness 
cost savings at around 60%. Han et al. [45] adopted the game theory to join the P2P energy trading. In terms of the income equality 

Table 2 
P2P energy sharing system.  

Studies Renewable Energy storages Plug-in Approaches Energy sharing Conclusion 
systems vehicles mechanism 

Zepter et al. PV and wind Battery ─ Synergies of peer-to-peer Energy trading based on The combined P2P trade and battery 
[44] turbine trade and residential storage day-ahead and intraday storage can lead to cost savings of almost 

with two-stage stochastic spot prices. 60%. 
programming approach 

Arsoon and Wind turbine ─ ─ Decentralized energy P2P sharing among P2P networked operation mode 
Moghaddas- management and information networked microgrids outperforms individual operation mode. 
Tafreshi [46] sharing 

Han et al. [45] Distributed Distributed ─ Game theory with the Call-auction method Participants’ profit of with-game-theory 
energy battery energy Bayesian Nash equilibrium with the trading was higher than without-game-theory. 
generators storage system (BNE) algorithm for dynamic mechanism for 

pricing maximum transaction 
cost 

Al-Obaidi et al. ─ Battery EV Decentralized energy trading Bidirectional smart EV The EV scheduling model with users’ 
[47] under Blockchain’s smart charging preferences will offset the EV charging 

contracts costs by 100%. Peer-to-peer energy 
transactions and ancillary services 
provision can be improved by 90% and 
11%, respectively. 

Alam et al. [48] Solar PV Battery EVs Energy Cost Optimization via Pareto optimality-based A saturated increase of cost saving can be 
Trade (ECO-Trade) fair cost distribution noticed with the continuous increase of 

renewables and storage penetration rate.  

181



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

Table 3 trading with PV forecast error and uncertainty [14], provide loss 
Modelling development and simulation tools on P2P energy sharing.  reduction, voltage support and congestion management for local power 

Studies Tools Approaches Mechanism Results grid [15]. Zhang et al. [15] conducted a coordinated market design to 
provide multiple functions such as loss reduction, voltage support and 

Hayes et al. Python and Co-simulation Blockchain- Moderate 
[17] Matlab based auction level of peer- congestion management for local power grid with P2P energy trading. 

Interface trade to-peer Depending on the roles of centralized and distributed energy storages, 
mechanism trading will Lüth et al. [12] indicated that P2P trade and battery usage are critical 

slightly affect elements that need to be considered for local electricity market. 
network 
operational Furthermore, the possibility for reserving capacity of a centralized bat
performance. tery needs to be considered for market-based incentives. Parag and 

Hawlitschek Onsite Onsite survey Strongest Economic Sovacool [13] studied the electricity market design in respect to grid 
et al. [51] survey among 745 motives for benefits, trust, integration, P2P models and prosumer community. Results showed that 

participants and against expectancy, the electricity market design can improve energy efficiency, democra
the peer-to- and ecological 
peer sharing sustainability tize demand-response and promote renewable energy technologies. 

are critical for Cadre et al. [57] studied the impact of evolution from the variational to 
P2P energy Generalized Nash Equilibrium on a P2P electricity market. Results 
sharing showed that due to coordination, market liquidity and information 

Yebiyo et al. Economic Total daily Energy selling Cost savings 
[50] modelling money and buying are 6.4% and asymmetry, the P2P market design shows superior performance than the 

quantification between 49.1% for classical centralized market design. Zhang et al. [14] proposed a novel 
consumers consumers P2P Local Electricity Market for energy and uncertainty trading and 
and and balanced 55.3% of PV forecast error. 
prosumers, to prosumers, Approaches to P2P based electricity market design mainly include 
improve the respectively. 
economic the onsite survey and negotiation algorithms. Ableitner et al. [58] 
benefits. studied the impact of user behavior on the P2P electricity market using 

Perger et al. Willingness- Energy Community Battery the onsite survey approach. Research results showed that 30% re
[52] to-pay tool sharing on PV power storage can spondents would like to actively set prices, 35% respondents prefer 

total PV sharing for decrease grid 
generation, overall imported automated prices under information system, and 35% respondents show 
instead of profitability power by 15% no response to the survey. Moret et al. [59] developed negotiation al
prosumer’s PV improvement and annual gorithms for energy transactions and management in consumer-centric 
surplus marginal electricity markets, with respect to large number of participants and 

emission presence of asynchronicities. Results highlight the necessity for hybrid 
savings by 
38%. approaches and sparsification on negotiation processes. From the 

Hirvonen TRNSYS Cogenerative Sharing of The primary demand-side management, Dang et al. [60] developed a demand-side 
et al. [9] energy sharing surplus heat energy load management strategy under the blockchain-based market, and 

and consumption indicated that 18.9% of total cost can be saved. 
electricity can be 
with minimal reduced by 
storage 1–9% with the 4. Approaches for marginal/trading price and economic 
capacity adoption of incentives for P2P sharing 

energy sharing 
technique. Depending on the internal price setting, internal trading mechanisms 

Liu et al. MATLAB/ An equivalent Price-based The model is 
[16] Simulink cost model demand verified to be can be mainly classified into supply-to-demand ratio mechanism, mid- 

incorporating response for cost saving market mechanism and bill sharing mechanism. Furthermore, consid
economic cost dynamic and improving ering battery cycling aging in distributed energy systems, the auction 
and users’ energy PV energy theory-based pricing bargaining mechanism with dynamic pricing will 
willingness sharing sharing. 

Ma et al. Homer Information of Automatic Incentives can become popular in smart energy systems with flexibility. Based on the 
[18] bids and sales energy be provided to real-time energy consumption and electricity purchase rates of pro

for P2P trading both private sumers and consumers, electricity trading prices have been identified to 
trading between and public guarantee the economic benefits [61]. This section aims to compre

producers microgrids  hensively review the underlying mechanism and mathematical quanti
and 
consumers fication approaches of each trading price strategy, and present the 

necessity of battery cycling aging in benefit allocation, through the 
dynamic pricing. 

distribution among all participators, Chakraborty et al. [56] proposed a 
negotiation-based strategy to improve the system efficiency and 4.1. Market paradigms 
fairness. 

For an efficient energy management system, energy suppliers can 
3.4. Peer-to-peer trading-based designs in local electricity market smartly adjust their onsite power generation, management and prices, in 

according to operating conditions, and the consumers will respond 
With the increased deployment of distributed renewable systems and accordingly by rescheduling their demands for profit maximization. Due 

associated electricity infrastructures, P2P sharing and trading become to the mutual interaction and impact, the natural game theory can be 
necessary to motivate more end-users’ participation. Electricity market applied for trading strategy analysis [62]. Nash equilibrium is an 
design can promote P2P trading with reduced reliance on power grid, effective state that players can improve the overall performance by 
and it involves multidisciplinary research and multiple efforts from changing its action multilaterally. Depending on coordination or 
system planner, operator, policy-maker and so on. P2P based electricity competition among each participant, game theory include noncooper
market design can promote the decarbonization with renewable and ative and cooperative games. The noncooperative game is mainly 
storage technologies [12], improve system efficiency [13], reliable applied in distributed energy trading with competitive providers and 

182



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

consumers, and the cooperative game is mainly applied in energy proposed a bidding model with consideration of operational constraints 
trading participants for cooperation with effective communication net and battery degradation. Through the bi-level optimization, prosumers’ 
works. Bhatti and Broadwater [24] developed a non-cooperative game benefits can be maximized in the upper level, and the storage degra
model with Nash equilibrium to promote market reliability and fairness. dation can be minimized in the lower level. Furthermore, renewable 
Results showed that the proposed market can increase local generation, system depreciation, energy transmission loss and associated in
improve payoffs (profits) for the participating players, and decrease frastructures need to be considered, when developing internal pricing. 
market clearing prices. However, the current literature provides limited studies on related 

topics. Future studies need to update the internal trading price model, 
4.2. Theory-based pricing with compensations on associated depreciation costs of renewable and 

storage systems, energy transmission loss, through price-based or 
The auction theory-based pricing mechanism is to maximize utility incentive-based programs. 

benefits, whereas the bargaining theory-based pricing mechanism aims 
to realise fair and self-enforcing cost allocations. In the academia, the 5. Strategies for dynamic P2P energy trading and decision- 
auction theory-based pricing mechanism has been used in renewable making 
energy management. Tang and Jain [39] proposed an auction paradigm, 
in which renewable energy suppliers bid probability distributions of In case of P2P energy sharing and trading, critical issues include 
generation. Cintuglu et al. [63] proposed a reverse auction model to whether or not to participate in the P2P energy trading? How to 
obtain reliable power supply by scheduling the electricity contract be participate in the P2P energy trading (renewable or battery)? In the P2P 
tween conventional and distributed renewable energy systems in an energy trading framework, the ultimate function of decision-making 
hour-ahead market. Mei et al. [64] proposed an auction-theory-based models is to automatically generate bids and help each peer to decide 
method for coalition utility of a cooperative game. whether to participate in the auction [73]. Hahnel et al. [55] studied the 

In case of bargaining theory-based pricing mechanism, Fan et al. [40] customer’s participation preferences. Results indicate that customers’ 
developed bargaining-based cooperative energy trading with fair allo trading behavior is highly dependent on electricity prices and state of 
cation of economic benefits among participants, following Nash bar charge of energy storages. Jadhav et al. [74] developed a seller level 
gaining theory. Compared to conventional non-cooperative game-based game and proposed a new pricing mechanism to promote fair energy 
approach, the bargaining-based cooperative energy trading can simul trading. The proposed approach is validated to be effective in trading 
taneously benefit consumers and energy providers. Wang and Huang fairness and system stability. 
[65] adopted the Nash bargaining theory to design an incentive mech In this section, strategies for dynamic P2P energy trading are 
anism for energy trading between micro-grids. In addition to dynami comprehensively reviewed, mainly including rule-based, stochastic 
cally balancing the local power supply and demand, the energy trading decision-making, dynamic iteration-based decision-making and artifi
between micro-grids can reduce the total cost by 13.2% and individual cial intelligence-based pricing mechanism. The objective of this Section 
cost by 29.4%. Li et al. [66] adopted the Nash bargaining theory to is to provide audiences with underlying mechanism, current status, 
address conflicts among economic benefits to individual participants, future challenges and prospects on strategies for P2P energy trading. 
system reliability and security. Melendez et al. [67] developed a generic 
Nash bargaining model for optimal electricity trading strategies among 5.1. Rule-based P2P energy trading in consumer and prosumers 
aggregations of peers. Results show that total cost savings are equal to 
the average price of 1.62-MWh electricity. Considering the multi-diversity constitution of various types of 

Furthermore, within the P2P energy sharing micro-grid, several buildings in a community, Morstyn et al. [75] proposed a federated 
critical factors need to be considered in P2P pricing mechanisms, e.g., power plant formed by prosumers to provide grid services. As shown in 
renewable system depreciation, battery cycling aging, energy trans Fig. 3, the community consists of consumers (low-income house without 
mission loss and associated infrastructures. The ignorance of these fac solar PVs), prosumer (solar PV, battery without EVs) and green pro
tors will lead to the inaccuracy of initiated pricings with sumers with EVs. The self-organized P2P energy sharing network can 
underestimation or overestimation of economic benefits to each improve the renewable penetration, together with the decrease of grid 
participator, especially considering expensive battery costs in the com reliance and increase of economic benefits. 
mercial market. 

For battery cycling aging in the distributed renewable supported 5.1.1. P2P energy trading in decentralized community 
microgrid, Zhou et al. [68] developed a battery cycling aging model to Factors that affect dynamic P2P energy trading behaviors include 
quantify the real-time battery degradation, in respect to different energy prices and battery state of charge [55], real-time power supply 
state-of-discharge and number of cycles. The proposed strategy can and demand [76], fair-trading process [77], and etc. Liu et al. [78] 
effectively improve the battery relative capacity from 0.94 to 0.986. proposed a price-based demand response model for P2P sharing. The 
From the life-cycle perspective, Zhou and Cao [69] studied the practical case study shows that the price-based demand response model 
techno-economic performances of an energy sharing system with can save PV prosumers’ costs and improve the PV energy sharing in the 
renewable depreciation. The results showed that the cycling aging will district community. By adopting the Nash-type game theory, Jing et al. 
devalue the system performance, and advanced energy sharing strategy [25] investigated the fair pricing strategies for electricity and heating 
with economic incentives is quite necessary. Furthermore, renewable trading within a small community, as shown in Fig. 4. The optimized 
energy transition [70] necessitates the advanced energy management variables include energy trading behavior, operational strategy, and 
strategies for battery storage management. Beltran et al. [71] adopted demand response schedule. Results showed that compared to standalone 
the rain flow counting algorithm to quantify the number of cycles and systems, 4.9% cost saving can be realized in the fairness-based energy 
battery cycling aging of various batteries in a grid-connected PV plant. It trading. In order to improve the P2P energy sharing efficiency, Cui et al. 
can be noticed, the current literature provides quite a few studies, in [79] developed a two-phase model, in which optimal energy-sharing 
terms of quantitative impact of battery cycling aging on economic profiles of prosumers were to minimize the global energy costs in the 
profits and participators’ behaviors in the P2P energy sharing. Actually, first stage, and equilibrium-based energy-sharing prices were identified 
with adoption of P2P energy sharing to enhance both renewable pene considering interests of each prosumer. 
tration of intermittent renewable supply and self-sufficiency on sto
chastic demands, less pressure will be put on the battery storage, so that 5.1.2. P2P energy trading with electric vehicle battery storages 
the service lifetime of battery will be prolonged. Nizami et al. [72] In addition to buildings in the community, the consideration on 

183



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

Fig. 3. Distribution network for P2P energy sharing. Low-income household refers to most of buildings in current situation. Philanthropic prosumer refers to 
buildings with onsite renewable supply systems, e.g., BIPVs and micro wind turbines. Green prosumer refers to the building with electric vehicle integration. 
Prosumers are willing to sell their renewable energy to either consumers or main grid to get economic benefits. 

Fig. 4. P2P energy trading between residential and commercial prosumers with demand-side management in multi-energy systems [25,80]. Heating network and 
power grid can effectively connect geographically different energy stations (e.g. commercial and residential energy stations) for district energy sharing and trading. 

vehicles in P2P energy trading has also attracted increasing interests building, electric vehicles (EVs) and a charging station under a dynamic 
recently, especially with the electrification in both buildings and pricing mechanism. Results showed that compared to P2G energy 
transportations. Alvaro-Hermana et al. [81] studied the cost-optimal trading, the P2P energy trading can decrease the total cost of prosumers 
P2P energy trading in electric vehicle systems, in accordance with grid by 23.2%, improve the self-consumption of PV generation by 10%, and 
electricity price and mobility constraints of vehicles. In the case study, ensure 100% participation willingness of prosumers. Through the power 
the proposed trading system can reduce the energy cost by 71%. Aznavi dispatch on grid, wind and PV charging station, Bokopane et al. [83] 
et al. [82] studied P2P energy trading among a PV integrated office developed a coordinated charging framework for P2P renewable 

184



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

charging stations of EVs. The P2P energy sharing model is a 1) Decision-making on dynamic power trading, dependent on internal 
cost-effective charging scheme and can meet vehicle users’ satisfaction. trading price and energy trading quantity;  

For P2P electricity trading among plug-in hybrid EVs, consortium 2) The intermediate retailers win maximum economic benefits while 
blockchain technology [27] was adopted for transaction security and the prosumers lose the benefits due to nontransparent information 
privacy protection, and the electricity pricing was solved by an iterative exchange between the ‘energy seller’ and the ‘energy buyer’. In 
double auction mechanism to maximize the social welfare. It can be addition, in order to promote the energy transaction between re
noticed that there are limited studies on P2P energy sharing and trading tailers and prosumers with buy-in energy at low price and sell-out 
between district buildings and vehicle fleets. The roles of prosumers, energy at high price, the intermediate retailers might adopt incen
consumers and vehicles in the P2P energy trading framework are worthy tive policies, such as ‘those who sell electricity fast to the retailer can get 
to be investigated, and economic incentives for promoting their partic extra bonus’, and ‘those who buy later from the retailer will suffer from 
ipations are necessary to be explored, especially considering the battery price penalty’.  
depreciation cost of plug-in EVs. Furthermore, decision-making on dy 3) The fair distribution of economic benefits for each participator with 
namic energy trading flow between buildings and vehicles needs to be the consideration of energy transmission loss and cost of micro-grid. 
considered, to improve economic profits of all participators with 
consideration on battery depreciation costs. 

Fig. 5 demonstrates a structural configuration of a P2P energy 5.2. Stochastic decision-making approach 
trading platform between community buildings and transportations. 
P2P energy sharing within community can promote the spatiotemporal Fluctuation in renewable generations and stochastic demands 
power migration to reach the regional energy balance with better require stochastic decision-making approach for optimal power flow 
matching performances between intermittent renewable power supply [26] and dynamic energy trading behavior [84,85]. In order to offset 
and stochastic demands. The integration of transportation in the com part of wind power deviation, Vahedipour-Dahraie et al. [26] adopted 
munity can provide auxiliary services for buildings, and transfer the stochastic decision-making approach to determine the optimal 
distributed renewable energy to vehicles. Several challenges need to be purchase energy from and sell reserve capacity to a wind power pro
noticed and investigated, regarding the integrated P2P energy trading ducer. By adopting the bilevel stochastic model (i.e., the upper level 
platform.  maximizes the wind power producer’s profit and the lower level mini

mizes demand response aggregators’ costs.), the cost-optimal strategy 
can be developed for P2P energy trading. Chen et al. [86] adopted a 
stochastic Leader-follower Game Approach, in which subjective load 

Fig. 5. Structural configuration of P2P energy trading for community and transportation. P2P sharing community can be formed with different types of stakeholders 
(office, hotel, commercial and residential building owners), based on the already existed powerline. Transportation energy systems can complement the existed 
powerline for spatiotemporal energy sharing and trading. The power grid is to dynamically balance the distributed renewable energy and district energy demands. 

185



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

strategies are for prosumers, while a dynamic pricing scheme with profit trading system [98]. Main functions of blockchains include transparent, 
is initiated for an energy sharing provider. By adopting the differential tamper-proof and secure systems for novel business solutions and smart 
evolution algorithm to solve the game discreteness resulting from social contracts (see Fig. 7). 
attributes of prosumers, the Stackelberg equilibrium can be reached, and 
the social behavior of prosumers can be effectively considered. In order 
to reduce the electrical demand at peak hours, Tushar et al. [84] 5.4. Others 
formulated a cooperative Stackelberg game, with centralized power 
systems (leader) for pricing setting and energy trading behavior change, In addition, dynamic iteration-based decision-making and AI market 
and prosumers (followers) with response accordingly. Through the prediction in P2P energy trading have also attracted researchers’ in
unique and stable Stackelberg equilibrium, a derived closed-form terests. In terms of iteration-based decision-making, Zhang et al. [99] 
expression was developed for the selection of leaders’ strategy and the applied iterative double auction to adjust individual transaction vol
prosumers chose their equilibrium coalition structure. Xiao et al. [85] umes and market equilibrium price, and to maximize the social weal
developed a stochastic energy trading game for optimal decision making fare. Results showed that the proposed iterative double auction 
on energy trading behavior. Energy transaction between buyer and algorithm can improve the hourly social welfare from − $37.41 to 
seller can be well matched. -$29.06 by 22.3%. Wang et al. [100] integrate multi-agent dynamic 

game in decision-making transactions. The transaction platform can 
provide complementation and coorporation among building owners, 

5.3. Blockchain application in energy trading for integrated community grid corporation and distributed renewable system owners. Tushar et al. 
and transportation energy systems [101] developed a coalition formation game framework with economic 

benefits to prosumers. 
Blockchain technology has been widely applied in energy trading With respect to AI for market prediction, Babaei and Bamdad [102] 

and privacy protection [87]. In order to keep the fair balance between developed an artificial neural network (ANN) model to evaluate risk and 
economic efficiency and information privacy, Esmat et al. [88] proposed return to help decision-making on P2P lenders. Compared to a tradi
a novel decentralized platform, consisting of the market layer and the tional model, the ANN model can help make better decisions on risk and 
blockchain layer, as shown in Fig. 6. Various market products can be return investment. Combination of machine learning with physical 
traded in the market layer. Market trading results are securely stored in models [103] is more helpful for complex nonlinear behavior learning 
the blockchain layer. Main functions of the blockchain layer include a and computational load. Chen et al. [104] adopted Extreme Learning 
high level of automation, decrease in human interaction, security, and Machine to establish the straightforward relationship between prosumer 
fast real-time settlements with smart contracts [89]. bidding actions and market responses, enabling the joint optimization 

In terms of blockchain technology application in P2P energy trading with flexible energy soruces. Qiu et al. [105] applied multi-agent deep 
platform, Mengelkamp et al. [92] designed a blockchain-based micro reinforcement learning to address the P2P trading via multi-agent co
grid energy market for information transmission. Okoye et al. [93] ordination. The approach can promote operating cost, peak demand and 
developed a blockchain-enhanced transaction model to address unde computational time. 
sired inherent delay on energy transaction. Peck and Wagman [94] 
developed an energy trading platform for energy sharing and trading of 6. Synergistic collaboration and operation among multi- 
neighbor rooftop solar power systems. Brousmiche et al. [95] applied stakeholders 
blockchain and Vehicle-to-Grid Technology to support the P2P energy 
market. Li et al. [96] applied an energy blockchain to address the se In the active distribution network with P2P energy trading, multi- 
curity and privacy in untrusted and nontransparent energy markets. The stakeholders are involved, including prosumers, consumers, external 
proposed credit-based payment scheme can guarantee the security and retailer, utility company and distribution system operators. Synergistic 
efficiency in P2P energy trading. In order to address the energy cheating collaborations and operations between multi-stakeholders can ensure 
attack from energy sellers to already paid consumers, Li et al. [77] the economic benefit of each participant, fair energy distribution and 
developed an anonymous authentication for privacy protection and a cost allocation, decreased reliance on retailers or aggregators and so on. 
timed-commitments-based mechanism for trading fairness. Dong et al. Rodrigues et al. [106] comparatively studied the optimal battery energy 
[97] developed a game-theoretic approach with accurate energy transfer storage sizing for P2P energy sharing community, in respect to different 
signal to achieve the self-sufficiency of blockchain. The proposed ownership structures. Results showed that compared to the energy 
approach can enhance trading efficiency, reduce communication loss sharing provider (ESP) based structure, the user owned structure is more 
and protect privacy information. Challenges and opportunities of economically competitive. In this section, multi-stakeholders based 
blockchain technology have also been studied, in distributed P2P energy synergistic collaborations, operations and optimizations have been 

Fig. 6. Decentralized trading platform [88,90].  

186



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

Fig. 7. (a) Blockchain-based P2P trading and off-chain; (b) side-chain solutions [91]. Both individuals sign the transaction contract using digital signatures. Smart 
contract will calculate and update the payment price, based on tariff and energy import/export. Consensus mechanism in the P2P trading will be applied, 
authenticated and validated. All off-chain transactions are recorded using a side-chain. 

clarified including prosumer-centric and consumer-centric energy incentivise players’ participation with maximized economic welfare. 
trading, retailer and utility company, agent-based techniques in energy Results showed that the proposed technique shows lower data exchange 
sharing and economic dispatch, and optimal cost distribution. Readers and faster convergence than other P2P trading methods. For autono
can clearly learn how prosumer-centric and consumer-centric energy mous consumer-centric energy trading market, Liu et al. [108] applied 
markets work, roles of external retailer and utility company, and deep Q-Learning (DQN) for P2P decision-making with increased prof
fundamental roles of agent-based techniques in energy sharing and itability. Orlandini et al. [109] developed a coordinated framework 
economic dispatch. between P2P markets and distribution system operator (DSO) in the 

consumer-Centric Market. Trade-off between prosumers P2P trans
6.1. Bilateral prosumer-centric and consumer-centric energy trading actions and grid operation can be achieved. Patnam and Pindoriya [110] 

studied a demand response strategy in a consumer-centric electricity 
Tushar et al. [22] adopted a game theoretic approach to guarantee market, integrating EVs, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, and 

the prosumers’ benefits in peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading. Khorasany renewable systems, as demonstrated in Fig. 8. The demand response 
et al. [107] designed a decentralized bilateral energy trading platform to involves retailor/aggregator, householders, aggregated buildings and 

Fig. 8. Multi-level demand response (DR) in a consumer-centric energy market [110,111]. The DR in multi-levels (retailor/aggregator, householders, aggregated 
buildings and appliance schedules) will change the consumer-centric electricity market. 

187



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

appliance schedules. grid parity, the trading market can be useful with the improvement on 
Tushar et al. [112] studied a prosumer-centric P2P energy trading self-consumption. Saxena and Abhyankar [122] proposed an 

scheme, with intelligent participation of batteries for economic benefits. agent-based bilateral transactive market through the mechanism that 
Results indicated that prosumers can still benefit from the peer-to-peer behaviours’ negotiation between sellers and buyers is reached by agent 
trading even without storage, and smart participation of batteries is technology. By penalizing the energy trading exceeding the contract’s 
quite important with consideration of battery degradation cost. Morstyn scope with imbalance prices, the social welfare can be maximized and 
et al. [113] systematically reviewed different prosumer-centric market imbalance cost can be minimized. Mahmood et al. [123] developed a 
design frameworks. Wu et al. [114] studied User-Centric Peer-to-Peer multi-agent-based sharing power economy for demand coverage 
Energy Trading with auction theory for energy allocation. Simulation through the price-based dynamic judgement between grid importation 
results on 15 simulated residential users validated the reasonability and and battery discharging, depending on ‘time of use’ and ‘state of charge’ 
effectiveness of the proposed technique. of battery. Results indicated significant financial benefits of ‘sharing 

power economy’ with the application of proposed agent-based tech
6.2. External retailer and utility company-based energy trading niques. Gomes et al. [124] developed an agent-based platform with a 

P2P transaction auction model and five independent agents, i.e., office 
Patnam and Pindoriya [110] reviewed demand response in buildings. With the prediction on energy consumption and generation, 

consumer-centric electricity market. Both direct load control, as shown using hour-ahead forecasting algorithms, each agent can actively 
in Fig. 9(a), and coordinated control, as shown in Fig. 9(b) with power participate in the transaction auctions and reduce the operating cost. 
and communication links, have been formulated. Compared to the direct Rahman and Oo [125] designed an agent-based energy management and 
load control, the coordinated control shows reduced reliance on retailers control system for power sharing with communication on local and 
or aggregators. Zhou et al. [115] studied the P2P energy trading with neighbor information exchange. The agent-based information commu
ancillary service provide by electric vehicles, and concluded that reve nication for power flow control can improve the power supply reli
nue for the customers can be improved in the community. ability. Wang et al. [126] designed a multi-Agent Architecture Design 
Vahedipour-Dahraie et al. [26] designed a framework with renewable framework for P2P control, with primary secondary and tertiary con
producers provided reserve capacity from demand response aggregators. trols. The information exchange between neighbouring agents can 
The cost of the demand response aggregators can be minimized through improve the reliability and effectiveness. 
optimal bidding. Zhang et al. [116] designed a multi-leader (retailers) 
multi-follower (consumers) game model in energy trading in microgrids. 7. Outlook and recommendations 
A trustworthy trading market can be established by constraining the 
selfish retailers. In the academia, researchers focused on P2P energy sharing [127] 

Guerrero et al. [118] formulated a transactive energy platform, as and trading [128], synergistic energy sharing [129], dynamic pricing 
shown in Fig. 10, for the comparison among uncoordinated, coordinated [130], initiative strategies [131], optimal market framework [132], 
and P2P approaches. The framework consists of independent system collaborative and competitive trading algorithms [133], 2-round auc
operator, distribution system operator, intermediate retailer and tion for trading cost saving [134], and so on. However, several critical 
aggregator, and end-users. Main functions of retailers include market issues remain unresolved, such as devices depreciation costs and trans
price and energy-use schedule. The aggregators will provide control mission losses, fairness cost-benefit distribution and allocation, syner
signals to end-users for smart operation. Results can enable practitioners gistic collaborations and operations among different stakeholders. 
to select a tailored approach in accordance to specific power network Compared to the already published articles, this study shows dif
and integration problem. ferences and significance as shown below.  

1) underlying mechanism on an equilibrium between dynamic power 
6.3. Agent-based techniques in energy sharing and economic dispatch trading quantity and internal sell/buy price was explored and 
strategy implemented in dynamic power trading strategies and decision- 

making approaches;  
Shamsi et al. [120] developed an economic dispatch algorithm to 2) mutual win-to-win economic benefits with synergistic collaborations 

reduce the operation costs of passive and active agents. Chen et al. [121] are provided to incentivise multi-stakeholders’ proactivity and 
developed a multi-agent-based model for distributive PV trading mar market vitality, with respect to prosumer-centric and consumer- 
ket. Results showed that with the tendency of descending subsidy and 

Fig. 9. Demand response (DR) architecture for interaction of (a) non-coordinated users and aggregator; (b) coordinated users and aggregator [110,117]. Dynamic 
information and power transmission can be realized based on communication and electricity networks. Power and communication transmission is between users and 
retailer/aggregators in the direct load control. It can also be formulated among users in the coordinated control. 

188



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

Fig. 10. A transactive energy framework with intermediate retailer and aggregator [118,119]. Market price and energy-use schedule are determined by retailers. The 
aggregators will provide control signals to end-users for smart operation. Tailored approach can be selected in accordance to specific power network and integra
tion problem. 

centric energy trading on intermediate retailers, end-users and utility • Development of dynamic P2P energy trading price model coupled 
company.  with grid pricing schemes to motivate the participation of end-users 

3) decarbonization on P2P based electricity market through energy in the community-based peer energy sharing; cost-benefit models 
efficiency improvement and power dispatch, together with service with fairness distribution and allocation strategies to eliminate the 
provision for voltage support and congestion management for local inequality and encourage the participators’ willingness; 
power grid. • Time-of-use peer trading management strategies for the enhance

ment in power flexibility and economy of the utility grid;  
Although P2P energy trading can ensure economic benefits to each • Consider hydrogen in district energy community for P2P energy 

participant, unfair distribution of economic benefits might decrease the trading especially as hydrogen vehicles may start to enter the market 
participation willingness. In order to guarantee the fair cost distribution (2021 MIRAI [137]);  
for the participating households, Alam et al. [135] conducted the Pareto • Grid interactive efficient buildings and optimal energy sharing in 
optimality to improve the neighborhoods’ benefits without sacrificing which buildings can monitor and control the power for techno- 
their own benefits. The near-optimal cost optimization algorithm economic performance improvement;  
through incorporating fair cost distribution in a coordinated demand • Boundary transition from peer-to-peer towards inter-city or cross- 
side management system can improve householders’ participation regional energy sharing and trading, with exploitation of local grid 
willingness. In a P2P energy sharing framework, Cui et al. [136] difference; 
developed a cost reduction ratio distribution model to guarantee the • Advanced business models to incentivise multi-stakeholders’ proac
fairness of cost distribution. Results showed that the energy cost of each tivity and market vitality. 
building can be reduced with reduced net import energy from the main 
grid. Based on the literature, several challenges are noticed.  8. Conclusions 

• Inequality on benefit allocation demotivates the participation In this study, a comprehensive review of peer-to-peer energy (P2P) 
willingness; sharing and trading was conducted, from aspects of trading pricing 

• Internal trading price fails to consider the renewable system depre models, decision-making in dynamic trading behavior and agent-based 
ciation, energy transmission loss and associated infrastructures;  synergistic collaboration. Cutting-edge technologies in P2P are 

• Optimal energy sharing strategies from distributed generators for reviewed, such as blockchain technology for the automation level 
total cost savings;  improvement, interdisciplinary research (e.g., game theory, auction 

• P2P energy sharing may extend the service lifetime extension of theory and bargaining theory) for dynamic pricing, machine learning- 
battery storage and the associated economic benefits;  based market prediction and stochastic decision-making on trading be

• Mutual influence between the dynamic power trading and internal haviors. P2P has several benefits over other energy management stra
sell/buy price requires dynamic iteration to reach the equilibrium tegies such as reducing energy losses and losses in energy quality, but 
and dynamic sell/buy price, but the convergence of the dynamic also providing help to bottlenecks in the power system. The key obser
pricing is a major challenge considering the operational uncertainty. vations and conclusions of the review are summarised below.  

Future studies could focus on.  1) The ultimate objectives for P2P energy sharing include improvement 
of renewable penetration with spatiotemporal intermittence, self- 
sufficiency on stochastic energy demands of district buildings, 

189



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

mitigated fluctuation and enhanced stability of power grid, and so Acknowledgements 
on. The underlying mechanism is to cover the demands of neigh
borhood buildings with onsite surplus renewable energy in a This work is supported by The Hong Kong University of Science and 
geographically different building.  Technology. All copyright licenses have been successfully applied for all 

2) Simulation tools for P2P energy sharing and trading in the local cited graphics, images, tables and/or figures. This work was supported 
electricity market include MATLAB/Simulink, TRNSYS, Python/ by the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou) 
Matlab Interface and Homer software. The simulation framework startup grant (G0101000059). This work was supported by Regional 
indicates that P2P energy sharing can improve the system efficiency, joint fund youth fund project (P00038-1002) and HKUST(GZ)-enterprise 
reduce the required energy storage capacity and primary energy cooperation project (R00017-2001). This work was also supported in 
consumption, enable high renewable penetration with decreased part by the Project of Hetao Shenzhen-Hong Kong Science and Tech
energy loss, avoid devaluation of energy quality and mitigated grid nology Innovation Cooperation Zone (HZQB-KCZYB-2020083). 
pressure for energy interactions, together with voltage support and 
congestion management for local power grid. References 

3) Marginal/trading pricing making approaches include market para
digms and theory-based pricing. The former mainly includes supply [1] N. Zhou, N. Khanna, W. Feng, J. Ke, M. Levine, Scenarios of energy efficiency and 

and demand ratio (SDR), Mid-Market Rate (MMR) and Bill Sharing CO2 emissions reduction potential in the buildings sector in China to year 2050, 
Nat. Energy 3 (2018) 978–984. 

(BS) methods, and the latter includes game theory, auction theory- [2] G. Vieira, J. Zhang, Peer-to-peer energy trading in a microgrid leveraged by smart 
based pricing and bargaining theory-based pricing. However, the contracts, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 143 (2021), 110900, https://doi.org/ 
associated or ancillary costs also need to be considered in the internal 10.1016/j.rser.2021.110900. 

[3] T. Sousa, T. Soares, P. Pinson, F. Moret, T. Baroche, E. Sorin, Peer-to-peer and 
pricing making process such as renewable system depreciation, en community-based markets: a comprehensive review, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 
ergy transmission loss, associated infrastructures (e.g., battery) and 104 (2019) 367–378. 
so on. Furthermore, mutual influence and inverse mathematical [4] A.M. Brockway, J. Conde, D. Callaway, Inequitable access to distributed energy 

resources due to grid infrastructure limits in California, Nat. Energy 6 (2021) 
relationship between dynamic power trading and internal sell/buy 892–903. 
price propose challenges for the dynamic iteration to reach the dy [5] S. Carley, D.M. Konisky, The justice and equity implications of the clean energy 
namic equilibrium.  transition, Nat. Energy 5 (2020) 569–577. 

[6] C. Demski, A. Spence, N. Pidgeon, Effects of exemplar scenarios on public 
4) Decision-making approaches on dynamic P2P energy trading can be preferences for energy futures using the my2050 scenario-building tool, Nat. 

mainly classified into rule-based P2P energy trading, stochastic Energy 2 (2017), 17027. 
decision-making approach, dynamic iteration-based decision-mak [7] J. Chilvers, R. Bellamy, H. Pallett, T. Hargreaves, A systemic approach to 

mapping participation with low-carbon energy transitions, Nat. Energy 6 (2021) 
ing and machine learning based market prediction. The application 250–259. 
of blockchain technology in the P2P energy trading process can [8] Y.C. Tsao, V.V. Thanh, Toward sustainable microgrids with blockchain 
improve the automation level, decrease the human interaction, technology-based peer-to-peer energy trading mechanism: a fuzzy meta-heuristic 

improve the security with transparent, tamper-proof and secure approach, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 136 (2021), 110452, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.rser.2020.110452. 

systems, and accelerate real-time settlements with smart contracts. [9] J. Hirvonen, G. Kayo, A. Hasan, K. Sirén, Local sharing of cogeneration energy 
5) Synergistic collaboration and operation can ensure economic bene through individually prioritized controls for increased on-site energy utilization, 

fits to each participant, fairer energy distribution and cost allocation, Appl. Energy 135 (2014) 350–363. 
[10] M.I. Azim, W. Tushar, T.K. Saha, Investigating the impact of P2P trading on 

and the decreased reliance on retailers or aggregators. Multi- power losses in grid-connected networks with prosumers, Appl. Energy 263 
stakeholders based synergistic collaboration and operation mainly (2020), 114687, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.114687. 
include prosumer-centric and consumer-centric energy trading, [11] D. Neves, I. Scott, C.A. Silva, Peer-to-peer energy trading potential: an assessment 

for the residential sector under different technology and tariff availabilities, 
retailer and utility company, agent-based techniques in energy Energy 205 (2020), 118023, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2020.118023. 
sharing and economic dispatch. [12] A. Lüth, J.M. Zepter, PC del Granado, R. Egging, Local electricity market designs 

for peer-to-peer trading: the role of battery flexibility, Appl. Energy 229 (2018) 
1233–1243. 

Future studies could include internal trading price with more [13] Y. Parag, B.K. Sovacool, Electricity market design for the prosumer era, Nat. 
comprehensive consideration of renewable system depreciation, energy Energy 1 (2016), 16032, https://doi.org/10.1038/nenergy.2016.32. 
transmission losses and associated infrastructures. Furthermore, cost- [14] Z. Zhang, R. Li, F. Li, A novel peer-to-peer local electricity market for joint trading 

of energy and uncertainty, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 11 (2) (2020) 1205–1215, 
benefit models for the P2P energy sharing with fairness distribution https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2019.2933574. 
and allocation strategies are necessary to eliminate the inequality and [15] K. Zhang, S. Troitzsch, S. Hanif, T. Hamacher, Coordinated market design for 
encourage the participators’ willingness. Advanced algorithms and peer-to-peer energy trade and ancillary services in distribution grids, IEEE Trans. 

novel approaches need to be developed to reach the equilibrium Smart Grid 11 (4) (2020) 2929–2941, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
TSG.2020.2966216. 

considering mutual influence between the dynamic power trading and [16] N. Liu, X. Yu, C. Wang, C. Li, L. Ma, J. Li, Energy-sharing model with price-based 
the internal selling/buying price. demand response for microgrids of peer-to-peer prosumers, IEEE Trans. Power 

Syst. 32 (5) (2017) 3569–3583, https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2017.2649558. 
[17] B.P. Hayes, S. Thakur, J.G. Breslin, Co-simulation of Electricity Distribution 

CRediT authorship contribution statement Networks and Peer to Peer Energy Trading Platforms, vol. 115, 2020, 105419, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2019.105419. 

Yuekuan Zhou: Supervision, Project administration, Conceptuali [18] Z. Ma, K. Bloch-Hansen, J.W. Buck, A.K. Hansen, L.J. Henriksen, C.F. Thielsen, A. 
Q. Santos, B.N. Jorgensen, Peer-to-Peer Trading Solution for Microgrids in Kenya, 

zation, Methodology, Investigation, Writing – original draft, Writing – IEEE PES/IAS Power Africa, 2018, 18245248, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
review & editing. Peter D. Lund: Writing – review & editing. PowerAfrica.2018.8520980. 

[19] S. Hall, J. Anable, J. Hardy, M. Workman, C. Mazur, Y. Matthews, Matching 
consumer segments to innovative utility business models, Nat. Energy 6 (2021) 

Declaration of competing interest 349–361. 
[20] Y. Zhou, J. Wu, C. Long, Evaluation of peer-to-peer energy sharing mechanisms 

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial based on a multiagent simulation framework, Appl. Energy 222 (2018) 
993–1022. 

interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence [21] R.J. Meinke, H. Sun, J. Jiang, Optimising demand and bid matching in a peer-to- 
the work reported in this paper. peer energy trading model, in: ICC 2020 - 2020 IEEE International Conference on 

Communications (ICC), 2020, 19831381, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
ICC40277.2020.9148652. 

Data availability [22] W. Tushar, T.K. Saha, C. Yuen, P. Liddell, H. R Bean, Vincent. Poor Peer-to-peer 
energy trading with sustainable user participation: a game theoretic approach, 

The authors do not have permission to share data. 

190



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

IEEE Access 6 (2018) 62932–62943, https://doi.org/10.1109/ [51] F. Hawlitschek, T. Teubner, H. Gimpel, Consumer motives for peer-to-peer 
ACCESS.2018.2875405. sharing, J. Clean. Prod. 204 (2018) 144–157. 

[23] C. Long, J. Wu, C. Zhang, L. Thomas, M. Cheng, N. Jenkins, Peer-to-peer Energy [52] T. Perger, L. Wachter, A. Fleischhacker, H. Auer, PV sharing in local communities: 
Trading in a Community Microgrid, IEEE Power & Energy Society General peer-to-peer trading under consideration of the prosumers’ willingness-to-pay, 
Meeting, 2017, 17543670, https://doi.org/10.1109/PESGM.2017.8274546. Sustain. Cities Soc. 66 (2021), 102634, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 

[24] B.A. Bhatti, R. Broadwater, Energy trading in the distribution system using a non- scs.2020.102634. 
model based game theoretic approach, Appl. Energy 253 (2019), 113532, [53] H. Liu, J. Li, S. Ge, X. He, F. Li, C. Gu, Distributed day-ahead peer-to-peer trading 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.113532. for multi-microgrid systems in active distribution networks, IEEE Access 8 (2020) 

[25] R. Jing, M.N. Xie, F.X. Wang, L.X. Chen, Fair P2P energy trading between 66961–66976. 
residential and commercial multi-energy systems enabling integrated demand- [54] C. Long, J. Wu, Y. Zhou, N. Jenkins, Peer-to-peer energy sharing through a two- 
side management, Appl. Energy 262 (2020), 114551, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. stage aggregated battery control in a community Microgrid, Appl. Energy 226 
apenergy.2020.114551. (2018) 261–276. 

[26] M. Vahedipour-Dahraie, H. Rashidizadeh-Kermani, M. Shafie-Khah, P. Siano, [55] U.J.J. Hahnel, M. Herberz, A. Pena-Bello, D. Parra, T. Brosch, Becoming 
Peer-to-Peer energy trading between wind power producer and demand response prosumer: revealing trading preferences and decision-making strategies in peer- 
aggregators for scheduling joint energy and reserve, IEEE Syst. J. 15 (1) (2021) to-peer energy communities Energy, Policy 137 (2020), 111098, https://doi.org/ 
705–714, https://doi.org/10.1109/JSYST.2020.2983101. 10.1016/j.enpol.2019.111098. 

[27] J. Kang, R. Yu, X. Huang, S. Maharjan, Y. Zhang, E. Hossain, Enabling localized [56] S. Chakraborty, T. Baarslag, M. Kaisers, Automated peer-to-peer negotiation for 
peer-to-peer electricity trading among plug-in hybrid electric vehicles using energy contract settlements in residential cooperatives, Appl. Energy 259 (2020), 
consortium blockchains, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 13 (6) (2017) 3154–3164. 114173, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.114173. 

[28] X. Xu, Y. Xu, M.H. Wang, J. Li, Z. Xu, S. Chai, Y. He, Data-driven game-based [57] H. Le Cadre, P. Jacquot, C. Wan, C. Alasseur, Peer-to-peer electricity market 
pricing for sharing rooftop photovoltaic generation and energy storage in the analysis: from variational to Generalized Nash Equilibrium, Eur. J. Oper. Res. 282 
residential building cluster under uncertainties, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 17 (7) (2020) 753–771. 
(2021) 4480–4491, https://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2020.3016336. [58] L. Ableitner, V. Tiefenbeck, A. Meeuw, A. Wörner, E. Fleisch, F. Wortmann, User 

[29] W. Tushar, C. Yuen, T. Saha, D. Chattopadhyay, S. Nizami, S. Hanif, J.E. Alam, H. behavior in a real-world peer-to-peer electricity market, Appl. Energy 270 (2020), 
V. Poor, Roles of retailers in the peer-to-peer electricity market: a single retailer 115061, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.115061. 
perspective, iScience 24 (11) (2021), 103278. [59] F. Moret, T. Baroche, E. Sorin, P. Pinson, Negotiation algorithms for peer-to-peer 

[30] G. Vieira, J. Zhang, Peer-to-peer energy trading in a microgrid leveraged by smart electricity markets: computational properties, in: Power Systems Computation 
contracts, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 143 (2021), 110900. Conference, PSCC), 2018, 18073287, https://doi.org/10.23919/ 

[31] L. Chen, N. Liu, C. Li, S. Zhang, X. Yan, Peer-to-peer energy sharing with dynamic PSCC.2018.8442914. 
network structures, Appl. Energy 291 (2021), 116831. [60] C. Dang, J. Zhang, C.P. Kwong, L. Li, Demand side load management for big 

[32] Y. Zhou, J. Wu, C. Long, W. Ming, State-of-the-Art analysis and perspectives for industrial energy users under blockchain-based peer-to-peer electricity market, 
peer-to-peer energy trading, Engineering 6 (7) (2020) 739–753. IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 10 (6) (2019) 6426–6435, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 

[33] T. Capper, A. Gorbatcheva, Mustafa Ma, et al., Peer-to-peer, community self- TSG.2019.2904629. 
consumption, and transactive energy: a systematic literature review of local [61] J. An, M. Lee, S. Yeom, T. Hong, Determining the Peer-to-Peer electricity trading 
energy market models, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 162 (2022), 112403. price and strategy for energy prosumers and consumers within a microgrid, Appl. 

[34] W. Tushar, C. Yuen, T.K. Saha, T. Morstyn, A.C. Chapman, M.J.E. Alam, S. Hanif, Energy 261 (2020), 114335, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.114335. 
H.V. Poor, Peer-to-peer energy systems for connected communities: a review of [62] S. Maharjan, Q. Zhu, Y. Zhang, S. Gjessing, T. Basar, Dependable demand 
recent advances and emerging challenges, Appl. Energy 282 (2021), 116131. response management in the smart grid: a Stackelberg game approach, IEEE 

[35] C. simulator, CNCSimulator Pro. CNCSimulator Pro, 2001. https://cncsimulator. Trans. Smart Grid 4 (1) (2013) 120–132. 
info/download. [63] M.H. Cintuglu, H. Martin, O.A. Mohammed, Real-time implementation of 

[36] Z. Li, A.V. Barenji, G.Q. Huang, Toward a blockchain cloud manufacturing system multiagent-based game theory reverse auction model for microgrid market 
as a peer to peer distributed network platform Robotics and Computer-Integrated, operation, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 6 (2) (2015) 1064–1072. 
Manufacturing 54 (2018) 133–144. [64] J. Mei, C. Chen, J. Wang, J.L. Kirtley, Coalitional game theory based local power 

[37] J. Liu, H. Yang, Y. Zhou, Peer-to-peer trading optimizations on net-zero energy exchange algorithm for networked microgrids, Appl. Energy 239 (2019) 
communities with energy storage of hydrogen and battery vehicles, Appl. Energy 133–141. 
302 (2021), 117578, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.117578. [65] H. Wang, J. Huang, Incentivizing energy trading for interconnected microgrids, 

[38] J. Liu, H. Yang, Y. Zhou, Peer-to-peer energy trading of net-zero energy IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 9 (4) (2018) 2647–2657, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
communities with renewable energy systems integrating hydrogen vehicle TSG.2016.2614988. 
storage, Appl. Energy 298 (2021), 117206, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. [66] J. Li, C. Zhang, Z. Xu, J. Wang, J. Zhao, Y.J.A. Zhang, Distributed transactive 
apenergy.2021.117206. energy trading framework in distribution networks, IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 33 

[39] W. Tang, R. Jain, Market mechanisms for buying random wind, IEEE Trans. (6) (2018) 7215–7227, https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2018.2854649. 
Sustain. Energy 6 (4) (2015) 1615–1623. [67] K.A. Melendez, T.K. Das, C. Kwon, A Nash-bargaining model for trading of 

[40] S. Fan, Q. Ai, L. Piao, Bargaining-based cooperative energy trading for electricity between aggregations of peers, Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 123 
distribution company and demand response, Appl. Energy 226 (2018) 469–482, (2020), 106185, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2020.106185. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2018.05.095. [68] Y. Zhou, S. Cao, J.L.M. Hensen, A. Hasan, Heuristic battery-protective strategy for 

[41] H. Mehrjerdi, Peer-to-peer home energy management incorporating hydrogen energy management of an interactive renewables–buildings–vehicles energy 
storage system and solar generating units, Renew. Energy 156 (2020) 183–192. sharing network with high energy flexibility, Energy Convers. Manag. 214 

[42] K. Branker, E. Shackles, J.M. Pearce, Peer-to-peer financing mechanisms to (2020), 112891, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2020.112891. 
accelerate renewable energy deployment, Journal of Sustainable Finance & [69] Y. Zhou, S. Cao, Coordinated multi-criteria framework for cycling aging-based 
Investment 1 (2) (2011) 138–155. battery storage management strategies for positive building–vehicle system with 

[43] E.A. Soto, L.B. Bosman, E. Wollega, W.D. Leon-Salas, Peer-to-peer energy trading: renewable depreciation: life-cycle based techno-economic feasibility study, 
a review of the literature, Appl. Energy 283 (2021), 116268, https://doi.org/ Energy Convers. Manag. 226 (2020), 113473, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.116268. enconman.2020.113473. 

[44] J.M. Zepter, A. Lüth, P.C. Del Granado, R. Egging, Prosumer integration in [70] Y. Zhou, S. Cao, J.L.M. Hensen, An energy paradigm transition framework from 
wholesale electricity markets: synergies of peer-to-peer trade and residential negative towards positive district energy sharing networks—battery cycling 
storage, Energy Build. 184 (2019) 163–176. aging, advanced battery management strategies, flexible vehicles-to-buildings 

[45] X. Han, L. Sun, Y. Tao, J. Zhao, G. Wang, Distributed energy-sharing strategy for interactions, uncertainty and sensitivity analysis, Appl. Energy 288 (2021), 
Peer-to-Peer microgrid system, J. Energy Eng. 146 (4) (2020), 04020033. 116606, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.116606. 

[46] M.M. Arsoon, S.M. Moghaddas-Tafreshi, Peer-to-peer energy bartering for the [71] H Beltran, J Barahona, R Vidal, J.C. Alfonso; C. Ariño; E. Pérez. Ageing of 
resilience response enhancement of networked microgrids, Appl. Energy 261 different types of batteries when enabling a PV power plant to enter electricity 
(2020), 114413, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.114413. markets. IECON 2016 - 42 Nd Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial 

[47] A. Al-Obaidi, H. Khani, Farag Hez, M. Mohamed, Bidirectional smart charging of Electronics Society. 16556910. DOI: 10.1109/IECON.2016.7794082. 
electric vehicles considering user preferences, peer to peer energy trade, and [72] M.S.H. Nizami, M.J. Hossain, B.M.R. Amin, M. Kashif, E. Fernandez, K. Mahmud, 
provision of grid ancillary services, Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 124 (2021), Transactive Energy Trading of Residential Prosumers Using Battery Energy 
106353, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2020.106353. Storage Systems, IEEE Milan PowerTech, 2019, 18938921, https://doi.org/ 

[48] M.R. Alam, M. St-Hilaire, T. Kunz, Peer-to-peer energy trading among smart 10.1109/PTC.2019.8810458. 
homes, Appl. Energy 238 (2019) 1434–1443. [73] B. Zhang, Y. Du, E.G. Lim, L. Jiang, K. Yan, Design and simulation of peer-to-peer 

[49] S. Thakur, J.G. Breslin, Peer to peer energy trade among microgrids using energy trading framework with dynamic electricity price, in: 29th Australasian 
blockchain based distributed coalition formation method. Technology and Universities Power Engineering Conference, AUPEC), 2019, 19592300, https:// 
economics of, Smart Grids and Sustainable Energy 3 (5) (2018), https://doi.org/ doi.org/10.1109/AUPEC48547.2019.211948. 
10.1007/s40866-018-0044-y. [74] A.M. Jadhav, N.R. Patne, J.M. Guerrero, A novel approach to neighborhood fair 

[50] M. Yebiyo, R.A. Mercado, A. Gillich, I. Chaer, A.R. Day, Novel economic energy trading in a distribution network of multiple microgrid clusters, IEEE 
modelling of a peer-to-peer electricity market with the inclusion of distributed Trans. Ind. Electron. 66 (2) (2019) 1520–1531, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
energy storage—the possible case of a more robust and better electricity grid, TIE.2018.2815945. 
Electr. J. 33 (2) (2020), 106709, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tej.2020.106709. 

191



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

[75] T. Morstyn, N. Farrell, S.J. Darby, M.D. McCulloch, Using peer-to-peer energy- [101] W. Tushar, T.K. Saha, C. Yuen, M.I. Azim, T. Morstyn, H.V. Poor, D. Niyato, 
trading platforms to incentivize prosumers to form federated power plants, Nat. R. Bean, A coalition formation game framework for peer-to-peer energy trading, 
Energy 3 (2018) 94–101. Appl. Energy 261 (2020), 114436. 

[76] A. Paudel, K. Chaudhari, C. Long, H.B. Gooi, Peer-to-Peer energy trading in a [102] G. Babaei, S. Bamdad, A neural-network-based decision-making model in the 
prosumer-based community microgrid: a game-theoretic model, IEEE Trans. Ind. peer, -to-peer lending market 27 (3) (2020) 142–150. 
Electron. 66 (8) (2019) 6087–6097. [103] T. Morstyn, I. Savelli, C. Hepburn, Multiscale design for system-wide peer-to-peer 

[77] M. Li, D. Hu, C. Lal, M. Conti, Z. Zhang, Blockchain-enabled secure energy trading energy trading, One Earth 4 (5) (2021) 629–638. 
with verifiable fairness in industrial internet of things, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 16 [104] K. Chen, J. Lin, Y. Song, Trading Strategy Optimization for a Prosumer in 
(10) (2020) 6564–6574. Continuous Double Auction-Based Peer-To-Peer Market: A Prediction-Integration 

[78] N. Liu, X. Yu, C. Wang, C. Li, L. Ma, J. Lei, Energy-sharing model with price-based Model, vol. 242, 2019, pp. 1121–1133. 
demand response for microgrids of peer-to-peer prosumers, IEEE Trans. Power [105] D. Qiu, Y. Ye, D. Papadaskalopoulos, G. Strbac, Scalable coordinated management 
Syst. 32 (5) (2017) 3569–3583. of peer-to-peer energy trading: a multi-cluster deep reinforcement learning 

[79] S. Cui, Y.W. Wang, Y. Shi, J.W. Xiao, An efficient peer-to-peer energy-sharing approach, Appl. Energy 292 (2021), 116940. 
framework for numerous community prosumers, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 16 (12) [106] D.L. Rodrigues, X. Ye, X. Xia, B Zhu Battery energy storage sizing optimisation for 
(2020) 7402–7412. different ownership structures in a peer-to-peer energy sharing community, Appl. 

[80] Figure 2 is reprinted from Applied Energy, R. Jing, M.N. Xie, F.X. Wang, L. Energy 262 (2020), 114498, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.114498. 
X. Chen, Fair P2P energy trading between residential and commercial multi- [107] M. Khorasany, Y. Mishra, G. Ledwich, A decentralized bilateral energy trading 
energy systems enabling integrated demand-side management, Copyright 262 system for peer-to-peer electricity markets, IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 67 (6) 
(2018), 114551 (with permission from Elsevier). (2020) 4646–4657. 

[81] R. Alvaro-Hermana, J. Fraile-Ardanuy, P.J. Zufiria, L. Knapen, D. Janssens, Peer [108] Y. Liu, D. Zhang, C. Deng, X. Wang, Deep reinforcement learning approach for 
to peer energy trading with electric vehicles, IEEE Intelligent Transportation autonomous agents in consumer-centric electricity market, in: 2020 5th IEEE 
Systems Magazine 8 (3) (2016) 33–44, https://doi.org/10.1109/ International Conference on Big Data Analytics, ICBDA, 2020, https://doi.org/ 
MITS.2016.2573178. 10.1109/ICBDA49040.2020.9099946. 

[82] S. Aznavi, P. Fajri, M.B. Shadmand, A. Khoshkbar-Sadigh, Peer-to-Peer operation [109] T. Orlandini, T. Soares, T. Sousa, P. Pinson, Coordinating consumer-centric 
strategy of PV equipped office buildings and charging stations considering market and grid operation on distribution grid, in: 16th International Conference 
electric vehicle energy pricing, IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 56 (5) (2020) 5848–5857. on the European Energy Market (EEM), 2019, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 

[83] L. Bokopane, K. Kusakana, H.J. Vermaak, Energy Management of a Grid- EEM.2019.8916247. 
Intergrated Hybrid Peer-To-Peer Renewable Charging Station for Electric [110] B.S.K. Patnam, N.M. Pindoriya, Demand response in consumer-centric electricity 
Vehicles, Open Innovations Conference (OI), 2018, 18253232, https://doi.org/ market: mathematical models and optimization problems, Elec. Power Syst. Res. 
10.1109/OI.2018.8535881. 193 (2021), 106923, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2020.106923. 

[84] W. Tushar, T.K. Saha, C. Yuen, T. Morstyn, H. Na Masood, Vincent Poor. Grid [111] Figure 6 is reprinted from Electric Power Systems Research, B.S.K. Patnam, N. 
influenced peer-to-peer energy trading, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 11 (2) (2020) M. Pindoriya, Demand Response in Consumer-Centric Electricity Market: 
1407–1418. Mathematical Models and Optimization Problems, vol. 193, Copyright, 2021, 

[85] Y. Xiao, D. Niyato, Z. Han, L.A. DaSilva, Dynamic energy trading for energy 106923 (with permission from Elsevier). 
harvesting communication networks: a stochastic energy trading game, IEEE J. [112] W. Tushar, T.K. Saha, C. Yuen, M.I. Azim, T. Morstyn, H.V. Poor, D. Niyato, 
Sel. Area. Commun. 33 (12) (2015) 2718–2734. R. Bean, A coalition formation game framework for peer-to-peer energy trading, 

[86] L. Chen, N. Liu, C. Li, J. Wang, Peer-to-peer energy sharing with social attributes: Appl. Energy 261 (2020), 114436, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
a stochastic leader-follower game approach, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 17 (4) (2021) apenergy.2019.114436. 
2545–2556. [113] T. Morstyn, M.D. McCulloch, Peer-to-Peer energy trading, in: E. Crisostomi, 

[87] K. Gai, Y. Wu, L. Zhu, M. Qiu, M. Shen, Privacy-Preserving energy trading using B. Ghaddar, F. Häusler, J. Naoum-Sawaya, G. Russo, R. Shorten (Eds.), Analytics 
consortium blockchain in smart grid, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 15 (6) (2019) for the Sharing Economy: Mathematics, Engineering and Business Perspectives, 
3548–3558. Springer, Cham, 2020, pp. 279–300, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-35032- 

[88] A. Esmat, M. de Vos, Y. Ghiassi-Farrokhfal, P. Palensky, D. Epema, A novel 1_16. 
decentralized platform for peer-to-peer energy trading market with blockchain [114] S. Wu, F. Zhang, D. Li, User-centric peer-to-peer energy trading mechanisms for 
technology, Appl. Energy 282 (2021), 116123, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. residential microgrids, in: 2nd IEEE Conference on Energy Internet and Energy 
apenergy.2020.116123. System Integration, EI2, 2018, 18363227, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 

[89] D. Han, C. Zhang, J. Ping, Z. Yan, Smart contract architecture for decentralized EI2.2018.8582548. 
energy trading and management based on blockchains, Energy 199 (2020), [115] Y. Zhou, J. Wu, G. Song, C. Long, Framework design and optimal bidding strategy 
117417, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2020.117417. for ancillary service provision from a peer-to-peer energy trading community 

[90] Figure 4 is reprinted from Applied Energy, A. Esmat, M. de Vos, Y. Ghiassi- Applied, Energy 278 (2020), 115671, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
Farrokhfal, P. Palensky, D. Epema, A novel decentralized platform for peer-to- apenergy.2020.115671. 
peer energy trading market with blockchain technology, Copyright 282 (2021), [116] X. Zhang, S. Zhu, J. He, B. Yang, X. Guan, Credit rating based real-time energy 
116123 (with permission from Elsevier). trading in microgrids, Appl. Energy 236 (2019) 985–996. 

[91] P. Wongthongtham, D. Marrable, B. Abu-Salih, X. Lin, G. Morrison, Blockchain- [117] Figure 7 is reprinted from Electric Power Systems Research, B.S.K. Patnam, N. 
enabled Peer-to-Peer energy trading, Comput. Electr. Eng. 94 (2021), 107299. M. Pindoriya, Demand response in consumer-centric electricity market: 

[92] E. Mengelkamp, J. Gärttner, K. Rock, S. Kessler, L. Orsini, C. Weinhardt, mathematical models and optimization problems, Copyright 193 (2021), 106923 
Designing microgrid energy markets: a case study: the Brooklyn Microgrid, Appl. (with permission from Elsevier). 
Energy 210 (2018) 870–880. [118] J. Guerrero, D. Gebbran, S. Mhanna, A.C. Chapman, G. Verbič, Towards a 

[93] M.O. Okoye, J. Yang, J. Cui, Z. Lei, J. Yuan, H. Wang, H. Ji, J. Feng, A blockchain- transactive energy system for integration of distributed energy resources: home 
enhanced transaction model for microgrid energy trading, IEEE Access 8 (2020) energy management, distributed optimal power flow, and peer-to-peer energy 
143777–143786, https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3012389. trading, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 132 (2020), 110000, https://doi.org/ 

[94] M.E. Peck, D. Wagman, Energy trading for fun and profit buy your neighbor’s 10.1016/j.rser.2020.110000. 
rooftop solar power or sell your own-it’ll all be on a blockchain, IEEE Spectrum [119] Figure 8 is reprinted from Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 
54 (10) (2017) 56–61, https://doi.org/10.1109/MSPEC.2017.8048842. J. Guerrero, D. Gebbran, S. Mhanna, A.C. Chapman, G. Verbič, Towards a 

[95] K. Brousmiche, P. Menegazzi, O. Boudeville, E. Fantino, Peer-to-Peer energy transactive energy system for integration of distributed energy resources: home 
market place powered by blockchain and vehicle-to-grid technology, in: 2nd energy management, distributed optimal power flow, and peer-to-peer energy 
Conference on Blockchain Research & Applications for Innovative Networks and trading, Copyright 132 (2020), 110000 (with permission from Elsevier). 
Services, BRAINS), 2020, 20056228, https://doi.org/10.1109/ [120] P. Shamsi, H. Xie, A. Longe, J.Y. Joo, Economic dispatch for an agent-based 
BRAINS49436.2020.9223276. community microgrid, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 7 (5) (2016) 2317–2324. 

[96] Z. Li, J. Kang, R. Yu, D. Ye, Q. Deng, Y. Zhang, Consortium blockchain for secure [121] P. Chen, Y. Wu, L. Zou, Distributive PV trading market in China: a design of multi- 
energy trading in industrial internet of things, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 14 (8) (2018) agent-based model and its forecast analysis, Energy 185 (2019) 423–436. 
3690–3700. [122] K. Saxena, A.R. Abhyankar, Agent based bilateral transactive market for emerging 

[97] J. Dong, C. Song, S. Liu, H. Yin, H. Zheng, Y. Li, Decentralized peer-to-peer energy distribution system considering imbalances, Sustainable Energy, Grids and 
trading strategy in energy blockchain environment: a game-theoretic approach, Networks 18 (2019), 100203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.segan.2019.100203. 
Appl. Energy 325 (2022), 119852. [123] D. Mahmood, N. Javaid, I.Ahmed N. Alrajeh, I.A. Niaz, Z.A. Khan, Multi-agent- 

[98] M. Andoni, V. Robu, D. Flynn, S. Abram, D. Geach, D. Jenkins, P. McCallum, based sharing power economy for a smart community, Int. J. Energy Res. 41 (14) 
A. Peacock, Blockchain technology in the energy sector: a systematic review of (2017) 2074–2090. 
challenges and opportunities, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 100 (2019) 143–174. [124] L. Gomes, Z.A. Vale, J.M. Corchado, Multi-agent microgrid management system 

[99] C. Zhang, T. Yang, Y. Wang, Peer-to-Peer energy trading in a microgrid based on for single-board computers: a case study on peer-to-peer energy trading, IEEE 
iterative double auction and blockchain, Sustainable Energy, Grids and Networks Access 8 (2020) 64169–64183. 
27 (2021), 100524. [125] M.S. Rahman, Oo Amt, Distributed multi-agent based coordinated power 

[100] H. Wang, T. Feng, W. Xiong, How can the dynamic game be integrated into management and control strategy for microgrids with distributed energy 
blockchain-based distributed energy resources multi-agent transactions for resources, Energy Convers. Manag. 139 (2017) 20–32. 
decision-making? Energy 254 (2022), 124318. [126] Y. Wang, T.L. Nguyen, Y. Xu, Q.T. Tran, R. Caire, Peer-to-Peer control for 

networked microgrids: multi-layer and multi-agent architecture design, IEEE 

192



Y. Zhou and P.D. Lund                                                                                                                                                                                            R  e n  e w   a  b l e   E  n e  r g  y  2  07 (2023) 177–193

Trans. Smart Grid 11 (6) (2020) 4688–4699, https://doi.org/10.1109/ [132] A. Paladin, R. Das, Y. Wang, Z. Ali, R. Kotter, G. Putrus, R. Turri, Micro market 
TSG.2020.3006883. based optimisation framework for decentralised management of distributed 

[127] N. Spiliopoulos, I. Sarantakos, S. Nikkhah, G. Gkizas, D. Giaouris, P. Taylor, flexibility assets, Renew. Energy 163 (2021) 1595–1611. 
U. Rajarathnam, N. Wade, Peer-to-peer energy trading for improving economic [133] J. Heilmann, M. Wensaas, PC del Granado, N. Hashemipour, Trading algorithms 
and resilient operation of microgrids, Renew. Energy 199 (2022) 517–535. to represent the wholesale market of energy communities in Norway and England, 

[128] C Zhang, J Wu, Y Zhou, M Cheng, C Long. Peer-to-Peer energy trading in a Renew. Energy 200 (2022) 1426–1437. 
Microgrid. Appl. Energy 220, 1-12. [134] S.V. Oprea, A. Bâra, V. Diaconita, A motivational local trading framework with 2- 

[129] S. Zheng, G. Huang, A.C.K. Lai, Techno-economic performance analysis of round auctioning and settlement rules embedded in smart contracts for a small 
synergistic energy sharing strategies for grid-connected prosumers with citizen energy community, Renew. Energy 193 (2022) 225–239. 
distributed battery storages, Renew. Energy 178 (2021) 1261–1278. [135] M.R. Alam, M. St-Hilaire, T. Kunz, Peer-to-peer energy trading among smart 

[130] Y. Zhou, Energy sharing and trading on a novel spatiotemporal energy network in homes, Appl. Energy 238 (2019) 1434–1443. 
Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, Appl. Energy 318 (2022), [136] S. Cui, Y.W. Wang, Y. Shi, J.W. Xiao, A new and fair Peer-to-Peer energy sharing 
119131. framework for energy buildings, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 11 (5) (2020) 

[131] Y. Zhou, Incentivising multi-stakeholders’ proactivity and market vitality for 3817–3826. 
spatiotemporal microgrids in Guangzhou-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Bay Area, Appl. [137] MIRAI. https://www.toyota.com/mirai/, 2021. 
Energy 328 (2022), 120196. 

193