Electrical Power and Energy Systems 155 (2024) 109547

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 

International Journal of Electrical Power and Energy Systems 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/ijepes 

A real time peer-to-peer energy trading for prosumers utilizing 
time-varying building virtual energy storage 
Xiaoyu Wang a, Hongjie Jia a, Zibo Wang a,b,*, Xiaolong Jin a,*, Youjun Deng a, Yunfei Mu a, 
Xiaodan Yu a 

a Key Laboratory of Smart Grid of Ministry of Education, Tianjin University, Tianjin 30072, China 
b China Electric Power Research Institute, Beijing 100192, China   

A R T I C L E  I N F O   A B S T R A C T   

Keywords: With the increasing penetration of distributed energy resources (DER) in the electric power system, Peer-to-Peer 
Peer-to-Peer (P2P) (P2P) energy trading has become a promising paradigm for future electric power systems. Building thermal load, 
Energy trading which is an important demand side resource, should be considered carefully in the design of a P2P trading 
Virtual energy storage system (VESS) method. In this paper, we investigate the application of building thermal energy storage capability in P2P energy 
Time-varying 
Model predictive control (MPC) trading. We aggregate and model building thermal loads as a virtual energy storage and derive a time-varying 
Trading preference virtual energy storage system (T-VESS) model to quantify the flexibility of a building. Key parameters of T- 

VESS, including charging/discharging rate, energy capacity, and state of charge (SOC), are analyzed so that T- 
VESS can be embedded in the building prosumer model to participate effectively in electricity-oriented P2P 
energy trading. We propose a real time P2P energy trading method of prosumers based on model predictive 
control (MPC). This method consists of an energy supply and demand quantification stage and a transaction price 
optimization stage, which can effectively capture the time-varying nature of T-VESS. To preserve the trading 
preference for prosumers, we propose a distributed P2P energy trading actions implementation method based on 
the continuous double auction (CDA) considering multiple trading preference grades. Numerical results 
demonstrate that the proposed P2P energy trading method considering T-VESS can reduce the operational cost of 
prosumers by 3.7%, while also promoting the local integration of renewable energy by 3.1%. Furthermore, 
compared to existing P2P trading methods considering single preference grade, the proposed method greatly 
enhances the utilities of both individual prosumers and the overall community.   

energy trading enables prosumers at the demand side to directly trade 
1. Introduction energy with each other, which has the potential to bring higher eco

nomic benefits for prosumers, and to facilitate better local power and 
In order to reduce greenhouse emissions and realize carbon energy balance for the power grid [6]. In this context, the design of the 

neutrality, governments in many countries have proposed strategic P2P energy trading method in the transactive energy market has become 
plans to promote the integration of distributed renewable energies [1]. a research hotspot in academia and industry [7–9]. 
For example, the installed household photovoltaic capacity has Energy storage is an essential component of the energy system with 
increased by 21.6GW in 2021 in China compared with 2020 [2]. In this high renewable energy penetration. In P2P energy trading, prosumers 
context, the role of the end-users has changed from traditional con can use energy storage to schedule their power consumption profiles 
sumers to prosumers with the capabilities of both energy production and more flexibly, achieving peak- valley arbitrage by coordinating the 
consumption. Due to the volatility of renewable energy, its high per renewable generation and the charging/discharging operations of en
centage integration will pose pressure on the reliable operation of the ergy storage [10–11]. Some previous studies have discussed the appli
power grid. With the advances in two-way information and communi cations of energy storage in the design of P2P energy trading method to 
cation technology (ICT), Peer-to-Peer (P2P) energy trading is recognized maximize/balance the benefits of the prosumers, aggregators, and 
as a promising way to address the above-mentioned problems [3–5]. P2P power grid. Ref. [12] proposes an optimal bidding strategy to increase 

* Corresponding authors at: Room D/429, The Building 26, Tianjin University, Weijin Road No.92, Tianjin 300072, China. 
E-mail addresses: wangxiaoyuted@tju.edu.cn (X. Wang), hjjia@tju.edu.cn (H. Jia), wangzibo@tju.edu.cn (Z. Wang), xljin@tju.edu.cn (X. Jin), youjun_deng0910@ 

tju.edu.cn (Y. Deng), yunfeimu@tju.edu.cn (Y. Mu), yuxd@tju.edu.cn (X. Yu).  

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2023.109547 
Received 5 May 2023; Received in revised form 5 September 2023; Accepted 27 September 2023   
Available online 15 October 2023
0142-0615/© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-
nc-nd/4.0/).



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Nomenclature cP2P
i Predicted market clearing price at t 

I All prosumers in the market 
Indices and Sets Im

i Prosumers of m-th trading preference grade trading with i- 
i, j Index for prosumers th prosumer 
t Index for time slots in a trading day 
e Index for building envelopes Variables 
k Index for energy demands Pba,chg

i,t Charging power of battery of i-th prosumer at t 
l Index for energy supplies SOCba

i,t SOC of battery of i-th prosumer at t 
Parameters of Battery and EV Pba,dischg

i,t Discharging power of battery of i-th prosumer at t 
Pba

i,t Charging/discharging battery rate of i-th prosumer PEV,chg
i,t Charging power of EV of i-th prosumer at t 

Eba
i,max Capacity of the battery of i-th prosumer PEV,dischg

i,t Discharging power of EV of i-th prosumer at t 
Pba,chg

i,max Maximum charging power of the battery of i-th prosumer QTC
i,t Heating power generated by thermostatically controlled 

Pba,dischg
i,max Maximum discharging power of the battery of i-th appliance at t 

prosumer QAC
i,t Heating power generated by air-conditioning of i-th 

SOCba,max
i Maximum SOC of the battery of i-th prosumer prosumer at t 

SOCba,min
i Minimum SOC of the battery of i-th prosumer PAC

i,t Electric power of air-conditioning of i-th prosumer at t 
tEV,a
i , tEV,d QHP

i Arrival/desired time of the EV of i-th prosumer i,t Heating power generated by heat pump of i-th prosumer at 
SOCEV,desired

i Desired SOC of the EV of i-th prosumer t 
QHP,building

i,t Supplying power of heat pump to the building of i-th 
Parameters of T-VESS prosumer at t 
mAC,dAC Constant coefficients of the air-conditioning QWT,chg

i,t Charging power of water tank of i-th prosumer at t 
COPHP Performance coefficient of the heat pump 
ηWT Heat loss coefficient of the water tank PHP

i,t Electric power of heat pump of i-th prosumer at t 

CAir Specific heat capacity of air WWT
i,t Stored heating energy of water tank of i-th prosumer at t 

ρAir QWT,dischg
Air density i,t Discharging power of water tank of i-th prosumer at t 

VAir
i Volume of the air in the building QHP,total

i,t Total heating power of the heat pump to the building of i-th 
Si,n Area of the n-th type of building envelope prosumer at t 
αHD Heat-transfer coefficient of building envelope PVESS

i,t Electric power of T-VESS of i-th prosumer at t 
PTC

i,t,max Maximum power of thermostatically controlled appliance PTC
i,t Electric power generated by thermostatically controlled 

of i-th prosumer 
PTC appliance of i-th prosumer at t 

i,t,min Minimum power of thermostatically controlled appliance WVESS
i,t Capacity of the T-VESS of i-th prosumer at t 

of i-th prosumer 
T SOCVESS

i,t SOC of the T-VESS of i-th prosumer at t 
in,min Minimum comfort temperature 

Tin,max Maximum comfort temperature EVESS
i,t Stored heating energy of the T-VESS of i-th prosumer at t 

SOCVESS
i,min Minimum SOC of the T-VESS of i-th prosumer PGrid

i,t Energy exchanged power between the utility grid and i-th 
SOCVESS

i,max Maximum SOC of the T-VESS of i-th prosumer prosumer at t 
PP2P

i,t Predicted trading power of i-th prosumer at t 
Parameters of P2P Energy Trading mci,t0 ,l Marginal cost of the l-th energy supply of i-th prosumer at 
d Number of time slots of the control horizon t
t0 Initial time slot of the control horizon 0 

cGrid,feedin mui,t0 ,k Marginal utility of the k-th energy demand of i-th prosumer 
t Feed-in tariff of the utility grid at t at t0 

cGrid,retail
t Retail price of the utility grid at t p(asell

i,l ) Energy selling ask price asell
i,l asell

i,l acceptance probability 
cGrid

t Price of the utility grid at t q(bbuy
i,k ) Energy purchasing bid price bbuy

i,k bbuy
cba i,k acceptance 

i LCOE of the battery of i-th prosumer at t 
probability  

cEV
i LCOE of the EV of i-th prosumer at t 

cP2P
t Transactions price at t 

the ratio of transaction matching success, in which the usage willingness participants equipped with batteries and solar photovoltaics is investi
of energy storage resources including batteries and electric vehicles are gated in [15], aiming at balancing the energy supplies and demands of 
also considered. In [13], an energy-sharing mechanism is proposed to the community P2P energy trading market. In the above studies, the 
promote both the allocation ability of energy storage resources and the battery is used as a main energy storage device in designing P2P energy 
self-consumption of renewable resources. The benefits of the aggregator, trading methods. However, battery costs are still high currently, espe
the community, and the utility in trading are also discussed in some cially its application in single households or residential communities. 
previous research. Ref. [14] regards a third- party entity with large-scale High costs and low returns made prosumers hesitant to deploy batteries 
batteries and photovoltaics as one controllable energy storage resource, just enough, which may result in renewable energy underutilization and 
and names it as the energy balance service provider (EBSP). Then, an impede the development of the P2P energy market even. Therefore, it is 
optimized pricing model and a P2P trading strategy with EBSP are significant to exploit more off-the-peg auxiliary energy storage resources 
derived to maximize the benefit of all members in the whole trading for prosumers’ P2P energy trading actions. 
system. A dynamic energy trading method for bargaining among In fact, the thermal inertia of buildings can be modeled into the so- 

2



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Fig. 1. Framework of P2P energy trading and community microgrid with two types of prosumers.  

called virtual energy storage system (VESS) [16–18]. With the aid of energy storage, which can function like a battery energy storage unit to 
such virtual storage, heating/cooling building demands can be dis well participate in the energy resources scheduling in the process of P2P 
patched orderly to derive extra benefits without causing a disturbance to energy trading decision-making. 
the user’s comfort. VESS has been employed and discussed in many Meanwhile, various methods have been presented for P2P energy 
researches, such as the power grid’s ancillary service participation [19], trading considering the building thermal inertia. For instance, a bilevel 
local renewable volatility balance [20], and building energy cost saving energy trading method using consensus algorithm is introduced for heat- 
[21]. Ref. [19] visualizes a diagram that the VESS can be used to electricity integrated energy system [23]. Reference [24] describes a 
participate in the ancillary services of the power grid, such as frequency game-theoretic P2P energy sharing management for a community of 
regulation, voltage support, and power quality enhancement. In [20], energy buildings. In [25], a two-stage energy trading model based on the 
VESS is adopted to mitigate the power imbalance problem caused by Stackelberg game and the alternating direction method of multiplier has 
stochastic renewable energy generation. In [21], VESS is utilized to been presented for the prosumer-centric federated power plant. In [26], 
support building energy management, in which an optimal scheduling with the coordination between electric vehicles and air-conditioning 
approach is proposed to reduce the overall energy bills of community systems, a P2P energy trading method based on multi-time scale opti
microgrids while maintaining indoor thermal comfort for the resident mization method is developed to maximize the total revenues of pro
occupants. Few work in the literature investigates the application of sumers. In [27], a P2P energy trading framework for smart buildings 
VESS in P2P energy trading. Although an optimization method is pro with air conditioning system is presented using a fully decentralized 
posed in [22] to quantify the aggregated flexibility of the VESS of approach, aiming to minimize the total costs. Ref. [28] proposes a hi
buildings, the time-varying nature of VESS are not properly considered, erarchical household P2P energy trading framework with two-level 
which may result in inaccurate flexibility quantification. The estab structures, including household energy resources scheduling level and 
lishment of the VESS model involves thermostatically controlled appli energy trading level, to improve the utilization rate of local renewable 
ances and building thermal dynamics, in which the latter will cause energy. The above studies primarily focused on the transaction behav
time-varying heat dissipating power due to inconstant indoor/outdoor iors between the overall energy resources flexibility of prosumers. 
ambient temperatures. The traditional VESS model does not consider the Nevertheless, there have been limited efforts to provide a comprehen
caused time-varying heat dissipating power, resulting in a constant sive analysis of the trading power and price of each type of energy re
metric quantum in the whole horizon, such as constant energy capacity. sources, and the corresponding matching process between the prosumer 
Moreover, the VESS model in [22] is derived from the perspective of with the specific type of energy resources to the particular prosumer. 
thermal energy storage, which may be challenging to accurately and This aspect is crucial in capturing prosumers’ energy trading preferences 
effectively solve the electricity-oriented P2P energy trading problem due accurately. Furthermore, the existing research [29–30] that takes into 
to the complicated heat-to-electricity conversion process. Therefore, it is account heterogeneous preferences of prosumers assumes that those 
necessary to re-formulate a VESS model from the perspective of electric with single trading preference grade only engage in transactions with a 

3



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Fig. 2. Diagram of modeling the T-VESS.  

small number of other prosumers, which may lead to the limited P2P communication in the real time market. In this market, the historical 
energy trading amount, and the reduction of profits of prosumers and trading information on trading power and price is publicly available to 
the utilization rate of renewable energy. Along with the occurrence of all prosumers within the community. Meanwhile, private information 
prosumers with multi-type energy resources and heterogeneous energy pertaining to each prosumer’s energy resources, including energy 
trading preferences, a more comprehensive distributed P2P energy resource configuration as well as energy resource production and con
trading actions implementation method in the real time market needs sumption behavior, is kept confidential. The microgrid is connected to 
further study. the utility grid which is responsible for the energy supply and demand 

Motivated by the abovementioned aspects, this paper proposes a real balance, i.e., coping with energy deficits or absorbing excessive energy 
time P2P energy trading method based on the model prediction control production. The controllable energy resources of residential or enter
(MPC) in an urban community microgrid, which takes the time-varying prise prosumers are managed by their local energy management systems 
VESS (T-VESS) into account, and uses a distributed method based on the (EMS). It is assumed that the controllable energy resources of a resi
continuous double auction (CDA) to implement the trading action. The dential prosumer include one electric vehicle (EV), one battery, and one 
main contributions are as follows:  air-conditioning; while those of an enterprise prosumer include one heat 

pump and one battery. In the following sub-sections, all controllable 
(1) A rigorous T-VESS model is developed from the perspective of energy resources will be modeled in details, in which the thermostati

electric energy storage, wherein the charging/discharging rate, cally controlled appliances (i.e., air-conditioning, heat pump) will be 
energy capacity, and state of charge (SOC) of a building are modeled into T-VESS in Section 2.3, by combining with the building’s 
accurately defined and analyzed, resulting in fully utilize the thermal dynamics. 
thermal storage ability of buildings. The T-VESS model is inte
grated into the real time P2P energy trading model of prosumers, 2.1. Battery storage model 
which can lead to the total cost reduction and renewable energy 
utilization rate improvement.  The battery can provide prosumers with energy storage support and 

(2) To effectively capture the time-varying nature of T-VESS, a real- is modeled as follows. 
time P2P energy trading method is proposed based on the MPC. 
This method is formulated as a two-stage structure consisting of SOCba

i,t = SOCba
i,t− 1 +(Pba,chg

i,t ηba,chg
i − Pba,dischg

i,t /ηba,dischg
i )/Eba

i,max (1)  
an energy supply and demand quantification stage (Stage I) and a 
transaction price optimization stage (Stage II). The energy supply 0⩽Pba,chg

i,t ⩽Pba,chg
i,max (2)  

and demand are quantified in Stage I by solving the formulated 
prosumer model, and the results are used in Stage II to determine 0⩽Pba,dischg

i,t ⩽Pba,dischg
i,max (3)  

the optimal energy trading price.  
(3) A distributed P2P energy trading actions implementation method Pba,dischg

i,t +Pba,chg
i,t ⩽max{Pba,dischg

i,t ,Pba,chg
i,t } (4)  

is proposed based on the CDA, which allows prosumers to 
maximize profits while preserving their trading preferences. In SOCba

i,min⩽SOCba
i,t ⩽SOC

ba
i,max (5) 

particular, prosumers sequentially match their specific energy 
supplies and demands with other prosumers of multiple trading Eq. (2) and Eq. (3) denote the charging/discharging power limits. Eq. 
preference grades, until successful matching or market clearance (4) is the mutual exclusion constraint for charging/discharging actions. 
is achieved. In this way, the overall quantity of P2P energy Eq. (5) is the SOC constraint. 
trading is increased, and the utilities of individual prosumer and 
whole community are improved compared to the existing method 
that considering single preference grade. 2.2. Electric vehicle model 

2. P2P energy trading framework and energy resource modeling EV can be regarded as a mobile energy storage unit. Thus, Eqs. (1)– 
(5) can be directly used to represent the EV model by replacing the su

P2P energy trading is designed for an urban community microgrid as perscript “ba” with “EV”. Apart from those, EV travel behavior needs to 
shown in Fig. 1. There are two types of solar photovoltaic (PV) inte be considered as follows. 
grated prosumers, i.e., residential and enterprise prosumers. They have PEV,chg

i,t = PEV,dischg
i,t = 0, for t ∕∈ [tEV,a

i , tEV,d
i ] (6)  

heterogeneous trading preferences, which refer to involving the 
matching of various energy resources with their corresponding preferred SOCEV

i,t ⩾SOCEV,desired
i , for t = tEV,d

i (7) 
prosumers, and the classification of these prosumers into multiple 
preference grades. Prosumers are connected by feeders, which enables Eq. (6) denotes that EV cannot be charged/discharged when it is on 
them to directly trade energy with each other via two-way information the way. Eq. (7) is used to ensure the desired SOC level at the end of the 

scheduling horizon to meet the next travel demand. 

4



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

2.3. Time-varying virtual energy storage system model parameters are involved, i.e., the charging/discharging rate (PVESS
i,t ), 

energy capacity (WVESS
A schematic of modeling T-VESS is shown in Fig. 2. Two basic models i,t ), and the SOC value (SOCVESS

i,t ). 
To quantify the charging/discharging rate of T-VESS, we need to 

of thermostatically controlled appliances (i.e., air-conditioning and heat 
pump) are firstly introduced. Then, the time-varying heat dissipating define and quantify a baseline power PBaseline

i,t . In this case, the charging/ 
power of the building is quantified to draw the building thermal dy discharging rate of T-VESS is calculated by the consumed electric power 
namics. A T-VESS model is finally developed from the perspective of PTC

i,t of thermostatically controlled appliances subtracting the baseline 
electric energy storage, in which three key parameters are defined and power PBaseline

i,t . 
analyzed, including the charging/discharging rate (PVESS

i,t ), energy ca PBaseline
i,t is defined as the consumed electric power of a thermostati

pacity (WVESS
i,t ), and the SOC value (SOCVESS

i,t ).  cally controlled appliance to keep the indoor temperature at the set 
point Tset

in,t . In other words, the building offers no adjustment flexibility in 
(1) Basic models of thermostatically controlled appliances this case, which means that T-VESS is neither charged nor discharged at 

this time. Further, the generated heating power from PBaseline
i,t is defined 

A thermostatically controlled appliance is functioned as heating as the heating power baseline QBaseline
building space by absorbing electric power. In this paper, it is assumed i,t . According the electricity-heat 

that the air-conditioning is used for residential prosumers, while the conversion relationship in (8) and (9), PBaseline
i,t can be quantified by 

heat pump is adopted in enterprise prosumers. Let QTC QBaseline
i,t denotes the i,t . Therefore, the first is to calculate QBaseline

i,t . It is clear that 
generated quantum of heat power by them. QBaseline

i,t can maintain the indoor temperature at the set point Tset
in,t. Ac

Due to the good performance of continuous power adjustment, cording to (14), QBaseline
i,t is equal to QHD

i,t at current time slot, as shown in 
inverter air-conditioning is considered here. Its consumed electricity PAC

i,t (15). 
depends on the space thermal demands QAC

i,t and the coefficients of 
QBaseline D r

performance (mAC and dAC), as shown in (8). i,t − QH
i,t = CAi ρAirVAir set et

i (Tin,t+1 − T s
in,t) (14)  

QTC AC C ∑N ∑N
i,t = Qi,t = mA PAC

i,t + dAC (8) QBaseline D D
i,t = QH

i,t = QH
i,t,n = Si,nαHD(T set

out,t − Tin,t) (15) 
A heat pump is usually packed with a water tank. Energy QHP n=1 n=1

i,t 

generated by the heat pump is equal to the supplying energy QHP,building Substituting (15) into (8) and (9), Eq. (16) yields the corresponding 
i,t to 

the buildings plus the storing energy QWT,chg electric power baseline PBaseline
i,t , in which (16a) and (16b) are the 

i,t in the water tank as shown 
in (9). Eq. (10) gives the electric consumption of the heat pump. And, the quantified value for residential and enterprise prosumers, respectively. 
energy WWT ⎧

i,t of the water tank is calculated based on its charging/dis ⎪ QBaseline dAC

charging power and the heat loss coefficient as shown in (11). Then the ⎪ i,t
⎨ C − (16a)

PBaseline mA mAC

total heating power of the heat pump to the building QHP,total i,t = (16) 
i ⎪
,t is given in 

⎪QBaseline WT,chg T,dischg

(12). ⎩ i,t Qi,t − QW
i,t

(16b)
COPHP +

COPHP

QHP P,building T,chg
i,t = QH

i,t +QW
i,t (9)  After PBaseline

i,t is determined, the charging/discharging power of T- 
VESS PVESS

i,t can be presented in (17). When PVESS
i,t is a positive value, T- 

QHP HP,building WT,chg
PHP i,t Qi,t Qi,t VESS is charged; otherwise, it is discharged. Eq. (18) gives the opera
i,t =

COPHP = )  
COPHP +

COPHP (10
tional power boundaries of T-VESS, in which the maximum charging 
power PVESS,chg

WWT WT,chg T,dischg i,t,max and the maximum discharging power PVESS,dischg
i,t,max are 

i,t+1 = WWT
i,t (1 − ηWT)+ (Qi,t − QW

i,t )Δt (11)  calculated by (19) and (20), respectively. 

QTC HP,total
i PVESS Baseline
,t = Qi,t = QHP,building

i,t +QWT,dischg
i,t (12)    i,t = PTC

i,t − Pi,t (17)  

PVESS,dischg SS ESS,chg
(2) Quantification of time-varying heat dissipating power i,t,max ⩽PVE

i,t ⩽PV
i,t,max (18)  

When a thermostatically controlled appliance is in operation, the PVESS,dischg e
i,t,max = PBaselin

i,t − PTC
i,t,min (19)  

indoor temperature Tin,t and outdoor temperature Tout,t of building are 
different, which will cause heat exchange between the indoor and out PVESS,chg C

i,t,max = PT
i,t,max − PBaseline

i,t (20) 
door space through building envelope [22]. The heat exchange can be Following to [18] and [22], the energy capacity of T-VESS WVESS
defined as the heat dissipating power, as shown in (13). i,t is 

defined as the electric energy consumption for turning down/up the 
∑E ∑E indoor temperature at t from (maximum comfort temperature Tin,max to 

QHD
i,t = QHD

i,t,e = S HD
i,eα (Tout,t − Tin,t) (13)  minimum comfort temperature Tin,min)/(Tin,min to Tin,max), as calculated in 

e=1 e=1
(21), in which ΔτW denotes the needed time for regulating temperature, 

where QHD as calculated in (22) [31]. PHD
i,t,e is the heat dissipating power of the e-th type of building i,t denotes the needed electric power for 

envelope, and Si regulating temperature, as calculated in (23), in which (23a) and (23b) 
,e denotes the building area of the e-th type of building 

envelope.  represent the calculation formula of residential and enterprise pro
sumers, respectively. 

(3) Key model parameters of T-VESS model ∫ t+ΔτW
WVESS

i,t = PHD
i,t dt (21)  

Based on the quantum of heat generated from thermostatically t

controlled appliances QTC
i,t and the time-varying heat dissipating power n[T

QHD ΔτW l in,min − Tout,t] − ln[Tin,max − Tout,t]
= ∑N (22) 

i,t , T-VESS model can be formulated mathematically. Three key model − D
n=1Si,nαH /CAir

5



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Fig. 3. Real time P2P energy trading method.  

Fig. 4. Illustration of MPC in real time P2P energy trading.  

⎧ HD
⎪ Q AC ∫

i t+ΔτE
,t d

⎪⎨ C − a) EVESS
i,t = PHD

i,t dt (25)  
PHD mA mAC (23

t
i,t = (23) 

⎪ HD T,chg W ,dischg
⎪ Q
⎩ i,t QW

i,t − Q T
i,t

COPHP + COPHP (23b) ln[T n[T
ΔτE in,min − Tout,t] − l in,t − Tout,t]

= ∑N (26) 
− HD r

SOC of a T-VESS is defined as the ratio of the stored thermal energy n=1Si,nα /CAi

EVESS
i T-VESS’s SOC is subjected to constraints given by (27) and (28). Eq. 
,t at current time slot to its energy capacity WVESS

i,t , as shown in (24). 
ΔτE is the needed time for regulating temperature from (Tin to Tin (27) denotes the relationship between EVESS SS

,min). i,t , SOCVE
i,t and PVESS

i,t , and Eq. 
Like the calculation of WVESS

i (28) denotes that SOCVESS
,t , the calculation of EVESS

i,t is given in (25). i,t needs to be within the constraint range [0,1]. 

EVESS SOCVESS SS
SOCVESS i,t i,t+1 ⋅WVE

i,t+1 = SOCVESS VESS S,
i,t ⋅Wi,t +PVES

i,t Δt (27)  
i,t =

WVESS (24)  
i,t

SOCVESS S VESS
i,min ⩽SOCVES

i,t ⩽SOCi,max (28) 

6



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Step 7: The time slot moves forward by one time slot for next opti
3. Real time P2P energy trading method for prosumers with T- mization. At next scheduling time t0 = 2, prosumers get the updated 
VESS utilization forecast data for the next Np time slots and the initial state of energy 

storages. 
To effectively capture the time-varying nature of T-VESS, a real time Step 8: Implement Steps 1–7 again until all optimal schedules for 

P2P energy trading method based on the MPC is designed in this section. prosumers are obtained. 
It consists of two stages: energy supply and demand qualification stage 
(Stage I) and prosumers’ energy transaction price optimization stage 
(Stage II), as shown in Fig. 3. The results from the two-stage method can 3.1. Problem formulation of energy supply and demand qualification 
be used as the trading announcement for the implementation of P2P (Stage I)  
energy trading actions. 

Stage I: energy supply and demand quantification. The stochastic (1) Optimal scheduling model of prosumers with T-VESS 
variables (PV power outputs, and outdoor temperatures) are first fore
casted over the prediction horizon. In contrast to day-ahead prediction, The objective of the model is to minimize the operational cost of the 
forecasting within the MPC process is performed over an extremely i-th prosumer in the control horizon. 
short-term scale and can thus be taken account to be similar to the actual 
value. Moreover, T-VESS’s time-varying parameters as presented in minfi = CES

i − MP2P
i +CGrid

i (29)  
Section 2.3 and the adjustable ranges of other energy resources are 
updated, which can be integrated into the prosumer optimal scheduling where CES

i is the operational cost of energy storage; MP2P
i is the P2P 

energy trading revenue; CGrid
model. Then, system operational conditions in the control horizon are i is the energy purchasing cost from the 
determined with the objective of minimizing the prosumer’s cost. And, utility grid, which is related to feed-in tariff cGrid,feedin

t /retail price 
the scheduling results at the first interval of the control horizon are cGrid,retail

t and the exchange power between prosumer and the utility grid 
applied to quantify the power and the marginal price of energy supply PGrid

i,t . 
and demand of prosumers. 

Stage II: transaction price optimization. The marginal price of ∑t0+d
CGrid

i = PGrid G
i,t c rid

energy supply and demand in Stage I integrated with the price accep t Δt (30)     
t=t

tance probability are then taken as weighting coefficients to formulate a 0

maximum expected weighted revenue-oriented optimization model of 
transaction price. In particular, the probability is calculated according to 
the historical trading information. 

⎧
⎨PPV b

+ (P a,chg
i,t − Pba,dischg

i,t ) + (PEV,chg
i,t − PEV,dischg

i,t ) + PVESS
i,t − PLoad

i,t − PP2P
i,t (31a)

PGrid i,t
i,t =

⎩ PPV
i,t + (Pba,chg

i,t − Pba,dischg (31)   
i,t ) + PVESS

i,t − PLoad
i,t − PP2P

i,t (31b)

In this paper, MPC is implemented for real time P2P energy trading of 
prosumers considering T-VESS, due to its ability to handle uncertainties ⎧

⎨ Grid,feedin
t PGrid

at prosumers. Using MPC in energy trading can accurately quantify the cGrid − c i,t > 0
t = (32)  

⎩ − cGrid,retail
key parameters of T-VESS model. And it can further make full use of T- t otherwise
VESS in energy trading, resulting in the total cost reduction of prosumers 
and renewable energy self-consumption ratio improvement. The illus where PLoad

i,t and PPV
i,t are the basic load and the electric power generated 

tration of MPC in real time P2P energy trading is shown in Fig. 4. And it by PV of the i-th prosumer, respectively. Eq. (31a) and Eq. (31b) are the 
has the following five steps. exchange powers of residential and enterprise prosumers, respectively. 

Step 1: At the first scheduling time t0 = 1, prosumers obtain the CES
i in (33) depends on both the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) 

forecast data over the Np prediction steps Hp
t0 = {t0, t0 + 1, ..., t0 + Np − which is determined by the degradation cost and the charging/dis

1} and the initial state of energy storages, which can be the control input charging power of the energy storage. 
of MPC. And the uncertainty is considered into the forecast data in this ⎧
step. ⎪∑t0+d[⃒

⎪ ⃒ b ]
⎪ P a,chg
⎨ i,t − Pba,dischg

i,t |cba
i + |PEV,chg

i,t − PEV,dischg
i,t |cEV

Step 2: Obtain the optimal schedules of prosumers by solving the i Δt(33a)

model of Stage I over the Nc control steps Hc CES t=t0
t = {t0, t0 + 1, ..., t0 + i =
0 ⎪ ∑t0+d

⎪ [⃒ ]
Nc − 1}. ⃒Pba,chg

i,t − Pba,dischg
⎪⎩ i,t |cba

i Δt(33b)
Step 3: Quantify the power and marginal cost/utility of energy t=t0

supply and demand for trading by applying the optimal schedule for the (33)  
first-time slot at t0 obtained in Step 2. 

Step 4: Obtain the optimal price of energy supply and demand for where |⋅| is the absolute value. Eq. (33a) and Eq. (33b) give the formula 
trading according to the marginal cost/utility from Step 3. of CES

i for residential and enterprise prosumers. 
Step 5: Implement P2P energy trading based on CDA for the energy To accurately quantify the energy supply and demand of the i-th 

supplies and demands with the power from Step 3 and the optimal price prosumer at t0, its expected energy trading profit for t > t0 is considered 
from Step 4. in the optimal scheduling, but the profit at t0 is not be taken into 

Step 6: Apply the adjusted optimal schedules at t0 based on the account. 
trading result from Step 5, which can be considered as the control output 
of MPC. 

7



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Fig. 5. The marginal price curves of prosumers.  

∑t0+d energy supplies and demands. cMCP
t is the predicted market clearing 

MP2P P
i = PP2

i,t cP2P
t Δt (34)  price at t.  

t=t0

{
cMCP (2) Energy supply and demand quantification 

cP2P t t > t0
t = (35)  

0otherwise According to the scheduling result of the first interval of the control 
horizon t0 in the above, the tradeable powers and marginal prices of 

where PP2P
i,t is the predicted energy trading power of the i-th prosumer at energy supplies and demands of prosumers can be quantified. 

t, a positive (or negative) value denotes energy selling to (or purchasing Taking the i-th prosumer as an example, the quantification process is 
from) other prosumers. It also can be denoted as possible trading be as follows. Firstly, the i-th prosumer makes the tradable power PP2P

i,t in 
0 

haviors of prosumers, which may affect the quantification result of 

8



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E l e  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Fig. 6. Flow chart of the proposed P2P energy trading.  

Table 1 Table 2 
Typical configuration of thermal controlled appliances.  Typical configuration of energy resources.  

Parameters  Prosumers   Parameters  Prosumers   

Residential Enterprise Enterprise Residential Enterprise Enterprise 
(#1-#90) (#91) (#92-#94) (#1-#90) (#91) (#92-#94) 

AirConditioning Peak Power 2 kW / /  Load Power 3 kW 128 kW 30 kW  
Constant 2, − 15 / / Operation 17:00–24:00 17:00–24:00 8:00–17:00 
Coefficients Periods 

Heat Pump Performance / 3.4 3.4  PV Peak Power 3 kW 50 kW 8 kW 
Coefficient Battery Capacity 13.5 kWh 450 kWh 60 kWh  
Peak Power / 80 kW 80 kW Max. Charging & 3.5 kW 50 kW 15 kW  

Water Tank Capacity / 1300 kWh 800 kWh  Discharging 
Heat Loss Rate / 0.01 0.01  Power 

LCOE 0.42 CNY/ 0.38 CNY/ 0.38 CNY/ 
kWh kWh kWh 

(31) be in the constraint with a step size of δ. The constraint’s upper and EV Capacity 70 kWh / /  
lower bounds are defined as PP2P

i,t0 ,max and PP2P
i,t0 ,min, respectively, which are Max. Charging & 2 kW / /  

Discharging 
calculated by the adjustable ranges according to the parameters of en Power 
ergy resources from (31), as shown in (36) and (37). And time-varying LCOE 0.26 CNY/ / /  
parameters of T-VESS are considered here. kWh 

9



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E l e  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Fig. 7. Retail price and feed-in tariff of the utility grid.  

Fig. 8. Solar radiation and outdoor temperature.  

Table 3 Table 4 
Prosumer building thermal parameters.  P2P trading results of residential prosumer group in Case I, Case II and Case III.  

Parameters Prosumers Results Case I Case II Case III 
(kWh) (kWh) (kWh) 

Residential Enterprise Enterprise 
(#1-#90) (#91) (#92-#94) P2P trading energy 1907.3 1896.5 1844.2 

Energy sold to the utility grid 177.8 186.1 223.1 
Building Door Area 4 m2 420 m2 24 m2 

Energy bought from the utility grid 510.6 507.1 498.4 
Building Roof Area 50 m2 2400 m2 1400 m2 

Battery charging/discharging 72.8/72.8 75.5/75.5 87.4/87.4 
Building Window Area 53 m2 2600 m2 1500 m2 

energy 
Building Wall Area 180 m2 9200 m2 5300 m2  

EV charging/discharging energy 98.8/98.8 98.8/98.8 102.5/102.5 
T-VESS/VESS charging/discharging 133.3/ 125.1/ /  

energy 124.2 116.3 
PP2P VESS,chg VESS EV,chg
i,t0 ,max = min{Pi,t ,WVESS

,t − E in{P ,WEV
0 ,max i i,t } + m EEV

0 0 i,max i − i,t }+0

min ba,chg
{P a ba

i,max ,W
b
i − Ei,t } + PPV

0 i,t0
(36)  f ) − f P

mp i(PP2P
i,t i(PP2

i,t − δ)
(PP2P 0 0

i,t ) = (38) 
0 δ

PP2P dischg VESS V,dischg V
i,t n ESS,

{PV
0 ,min = mi i,t0 ,max ,Ei,t } + min{PE

0 i,max ,EE
i,t }+0  The marginal price curves of PP2P

i,t are formed as shown in Fig. 5. It can 
0 

min ba,dischg (37)
{P ba d

i,max ,Ei,t } + PLoa
0 i,t be seen that the curves have the nature of segmentation. Assume the 

Then, the marginal prices of PP2P marginal cost curve consists of L segments, and each segment contains 
i,t at different values is obtained in 

0 the information of energy supply (marginal price and tradable power) 
(38) by calculating the differentiation of the operation cost fi(⋅) given in for price optimization and trading implementation. For the l-th segment 
(29) to PP2P

i,t . 
0

10



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E l e  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Table 5 
P2P trading results of enterprise prosumer group in Case I, Case II and Case III.  where Putility

i,t0 ,k− 1 and Putility
i,t0 ,k are the lower bound powers of the k-th and (k- 

1)-th segment, respectively. 
Results Case I Case II Case III 

(kWh) (kWh) (kWh) 
3.2. Transaction price optimization (Stage II) 

P2P trading energy 1907.3 1896.5 1844.2 
Energy bought from the utility grid 688.4 698.3 756.5 
Battery charging/discharging 478.3/ 483.4/ 513.4/513.4 Based on the marginal prices of energy supplies and demands ob

energy 478.3 483.4 tained in Stage I and the calculated price probabilities, transaction prices 
T-VESS/VESS charging/discharging 67.6/63.1 63.3/60.1 /  for energy supplies and demands can be optimized in this stage. 

energy Prosumers execute the price optimization of energy supplies and 
demands with marginal prices from Stage I to obtain the optimal price. 

as shown in Fig. 5(a), the supplied power (PP2P,supply
i,t0 ,l ) can be determined Specifically, the marginal prices of energy supply and demand can be the 

by (39) which is equal to the length of the power interval 1. And, the upper/lower limit in the price optimization, which can improve the 
profit of the prosumers in energy trading. Thus, the ask price optimi

relationship of PP2P,supply
i,t0 ,l and PP2P

i,t0 ,max can be represented in (40). The zation model for the l-th energy supply with the marginal cost mci,l and 
marginal cost mci,t0 ,l can be determined as the length of the price interval the bid price optimization model for the k-th energy demand with the 
2. It can serve as the foundation for price optimization in Stage II. Then, marginal utility mui,k are shown in (43) and (44), respectively. 
PP2P,supply

i,t0 ,l and mci,t0 ,l are included into a defined set sP2P,supply
i,t0 ,l , which is 

regarded as the l-th energy supply at t0. πsell
i,l = max [(asell

i,l − mci,l)⋅p(a
sell
i,l )] (43)  

asell
i,l ∈(ob,oa)

PP2P,supply
i,t0 ,l = Pcost

i,t0 ,l − Pcost
i,t0 ,l− 1 (39)  

πbuy
i,k = max [(mui,k − bbuy

i,k )⋅q(b
buy
i,k )] (44)  

bbuy
i,k ∈(ob,oa)

∑L
PP2P,supply
i,t0 ,l = PP2P

i,t0 ,max (40)  
1 where asell

i,l is the transaction ask price to be optimized for the l-th energy 

where Pcost supply, and bbuy
i,t0 ,l and Pcost

i,t0 ,l− 1 are the lower bound powers of the l-th and (l-1)- i,k is the transaction bid price to be optimized for the k-th 
th segment, respectively. energy demand. Note that the transaction price to be optimized needs to 

Similarly, assume that there are K segments in the marginal utility be limited between the highest ask price and the lowest bid price (ob, oa)
curve as shown in Fig. 5(b). For the k-th segment, the power demand in the historical trading information. p(asell

i,l ) and q(bbuy
i,k ) are the accep

(PP2P,demand
i,t0 ,k ) is calculated in (41). The relationship of PP2P,demand

i,t0 ,k and tance probability if the i-th prosumer offers asell
i,l for energy selling, and 

PP2P
i,t0 ,min is represented in (42). The marginal utility mui,t0 ,k can be ob the i-th prosumer bids bbuy

i,k for energy purchasing, which can be obtained 
tained in the same way as the marginal cost of l-th segment. Then, 
PP2P,demand

i,t0 ,k and mui,t0 ,k are included into a defined set bP2P,demand
i,t0 ,k , which is Table 6 

taken as the k-th energy demand at t0. Daily cost of each enterprise prosumer.  

PP2P,demand
i,t0 ,k = Putility

i,t0 ,k− 1 − Putility Enterprise prosumer number Case I Case II Case III 
i,t0 ,k (41)  

#91 491.3 CNY 498.6 CNY 527.5 CNY 

∑K
#92 156.8 CNY 163.1 CNY 183.2 CNY 

PP2P,demand
i,t0 ,k = PP2P

i,t0 ,min (42)  #93 216.8 CNY 226 CNY 256.2 CNY 
1 #94 448.9 CNY 459 CNY 493.3 CNY  

Fig. 9. Daily profit of each residential prosumer.  

11



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Fig. 10. Capacity and charging/discharging power of T-VESS/VESS in Case I and Case II.  

by analyzing the historical trading information. The historical trading is made, then all bid prices dbuy⩾asell
i,l would have the opportunity to be 

information is the record of previous trading information of matching ∑
accepted. RA(dsell) denotes the total number of the rejected ask prices 

results in the market [32]. In each auction, prosumers can extract some ∑
that are less than asell

i,l . Similarly, TB(dbuy) denotes the total number of 
latest trading information from the historical trading information to 
calculate the probability in (45)–(46). Considering this probability in the accepted bid prices dsell ∑

that are less than or equal to bbuy
i,k . A(dsell)

price optimization can meet the demand for maximizing the final energy denotes the total number of ask prices dsell that are less than or equal to 
trading profit of prosumers while improving the convergence efficiency. bbuy ∑

i,k . RB(dbuy) denotes the total number of the rejected bid prices dbuy 
∑ sell ∑ b

dsell⩾asellTA(d ) +
p i dbuy⩾asellB(d uy) that are greater than bbuy

i,k . 
∑ ,l

(asell
i,l ) = ∑ i,l ∑

dsell⩾asellTA(dsell) + B(dbuy) + ell
l ds <asellRA(dsell (45)  

)
i dbuy⩾asell Eqs. (29)–(46) determine the power and optimal price of each energy 
,l i, i,l

supply and demand to be traded. Prosumers have heterogeneous trading 
∑ preferences for each energy supply and demand, which is difficult to be 

b TB(dbuy ∑
) +

q buy d uy⩽bbuy
i dsell⩽bbuyA(dsell)

(b ∑ ,k ∑ i,k
i,k ) = ∑ guaranteed for the existing trading actions implementation method. 

dbuy⩽bbuyTB(dbuy) + sell b u
,k d ⩽ b yA(dsell) + buy buyRB(dbuy (46)  
i i,k d >b )

i,k Thus, a comprehensive and accurate method is urgently needed. 
∑

where TA(dsell) denotes the total number of the accepted ask prices 4. P2P energy trading actions implementation for prosumers 
dsell that are greater than or equal to asell

i,l . And, it also indicates that if an 
ask price asell

i,l has been accepted, all ask prices dsell⩾asell
i,l would be A real-time distributed P2P energy trading actions implementation 

∑
accepted. B(dbuy) denotes the total number of bid prices dbuy that are method is proposed through the adoption of the CDA. More specifically, 

the procedure of the energy trading consists of following steps, and is 
greater than or equal to asell

i,l . And, it indicates that if a bid price dbuy⩾asell
i,l summarized in the following pseud code. 

12



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I n t e r n a t i o n a l  J o u r n a l  o f  E l e c t r i c a l  P o w e r  a n d  E n e r g y  S y s t e m s 155 (2024) 109547

∑⃒ ⃒
max ⃒ b y ll⃒ P2P,supply

⃒b u
j − ase

i,l ⃒Pi,l
i=∕j (47)  

s.t. PP2P,supply
i,l ⩽PP2P,demand

j

∑⃒ ⃒
max ⃒ b y

⃒b u
i,k − asell⃒ P2P,d

j ⃒P emand
i,k

i=∕j (48) 
s.t. PP2P,demand

i,k ⩽PP2P,supply
j

Step 4: If the matching model is unavailable, the failed matching 
information can also be recorded, and the i-th prosumer may adjust the 
price of energy supply (energy demand) by retrying the price optimi
zation in accordance by updated acceptance probabilities from Step 0. 
Then the i-th prosumer will refresh announcements, and repeat the 
above steps 0–3. 

Step 5: If the new adjusted price of the i-th prosumer remains un
changed (same as the price that failed to match with Im

i,l/In
i,k), the i-th 

prosumer selects prosumers Im− 1
i,l /In− 1

i,k of lower preference grade for 
matching, and repeat the above steps 0–4. This process is executed 
continually until the energy trading market is clearing.  

Algorithm 1 Trading process based on the CDA 

1: While the energy trading market is clearing do 
2: randomly select the i-th prosumer 
3: generate the Ssell

i /Dbuy
i and publish the ssell

i,l /dbuy
i,k 

4: go to Step 3; 
5: if the matching model is solvable 
6: record the trading result; 
7: else 
8: go to Step 4; 
9: if the new adjusted price is same as the price that failed to match with 

Imi,l/Ini,k 
10: go to Step 5; 
11: end if 

Fig. 11. Energy supplies and demands in a whole day.  12: end if 
13: end while  

Step 0: Calculating the power of energy supply and demand and the 
optimal price from Section 3. 

Step 1: Generating the energy supply announcements Ssell The flowchart of the proposed real-time P2P energy trading is shown in 
i = {ssell

i,1 ,

ssell
i,2 ,⋯, ssell Fig. 6. Firstly, in each round, the forecasted environmental data in the 

i,l } and energy demand announcements Dbuy
i = {dbuy

i,1 , dbuy
i,2 ,⋯, prediction horizon and previous transaction results are input to the 

dbuy
i,k } of the i-th prosumer based on Step 0. The announcement includes model. By applying the energy supply and demand quantification (Stage 

the optimal price and the power of energy supply and demand (ssell I), the marginal prices and the powers of energy supplies and demands 
i,l = {

are obtained. Then, the transaction price optimization (Stage II) is 
asell

i,l , PP2P,supply
i,l } and dbuy

i,k = {bbuy
i,k ,PP2P,demand

i,k }). implemented according to the updated historical trading information. 
Remark 1. In the energy trading, prosumers with energy supply an The P2P transaction results are finally determined through the distrib
nouncements will act as the seller in energy trading, whereas those with en uted implementation method. The energy trading process is repeated 
ergy demand announcements will act as the buyer. If prosumers have both until the end of the scheduling period. 
energy supply and demand announcements within one time interval, they are 
able to function as both buyers and sellers. 5. Case studies 

Step 2: Selecting the ssell
i,l /dbuy

i,k of the i-th prosumer and publishing it 5.1. Test system 
to the other prosumers Im

i,l/In
i,k of the m-th/n-th trading preference grade. 

In particular, the i-th prosumer with ssell
i,l /dbuy A typical grid-connected community microgrid in [14] is taken to 

i,k classifies the other pro verify the effectiveness of the proposed P2P energy trading method. 
sumers into multiple grades Ii,l = {Im

i,l, I
m− 1
i,l , Im− 2

i,l ,⋯, I1
i,l}/Ii,k = {In

i,k, I
n− 1
i,k , There are 94 prosumers composed of 90 residential prosumers (indexed 

In− 2 by #1-#90) and 4 enterprise prosumers (indexed by #91-#94). Ther
i,k ,⋯,I1

i,k}. The j-th prosumer received ssell
i,l /dbuy

i,k is one of the prosumers 
Im
i,l (j ∕= i, j ∈ I, i ∈ I, j ∈ Im

i,l)/In
i,k (j ∕= i, j ∈ I, i ∈ I, j ∈ In mostatically controlled appliances and the energy resources of pro

i,k). 
Step 3: The energy supply and demand matching models are pro sumers are shown in Table 1 and Table 2 [14 22]. The arrival and 

posed, aiming to maximize the profit. Specifically, the i-th prosumer departure time of EV are 17:00 and 7:00, respectively. The desired SOC 
preferentially select the lower-priced energy supply (higher-priced en level of EV is 0.75 according to [15]. 
ergy demand), as shown in (47) and (48). And the trading power is The retail price and feed-in tariff of the utility grid are shown in Fig. 7 

[34]. The density and specific heat capacity ratio of the air are set as 1.2 
determined by the power of ssell

i,l /dbuy
i,k . If the model is solvable, the kg/m3 and 1000 J/(kg ◦C), respectively [33]. Heat-transfer coefficient is 

trading result of ssell
i set as 2.8 W/(m2 ◦C). The solar radiation and outdoor temperature on a 
,l /dbuy

i,k is recorded in the historical trading 
information. typical winter day are shown in Fig. 8[34]. There are 96 time slots in one 

day. Time interval is set as 15 min. The size of the prediction and control 
horizons are set as 8 slots. Three types of buildings are considered and 

13



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Fig. 12. Marginal cost curves of residential prosumer #1.  

the corresponding parameters are given in Table 3 [14]. And, the 5.2. P2P trading results  
buildings for prosumers without VESS maintain the indoor temperature 
at the desired set point (18 ◦C), but the buildings with T-VESS/VESS (1) P2P trading results considering T-VESS 
adjust the indoor temperature within the desired comfort range (18 ◦C- 
20 ◦C). Energy consumption and production behaviors of residential/enter

To verify the effectiveness of the proposed method, the following five prise prosumers are analyzed in Case I, Case II, and Case III. One day with 
cases are considered. 24 h is divided into three periods, i.e., the daytime period (6:00–17:00), 

Case I: The proposed method. the nighttime living period (17:00–24:00), and the idle period 
Case II: The traditional VESS in [22] is adopted in the proposed (0:00–6:00). 

method. In the market of P2P energy trading, the energy production and 
Case III: No consider the utilization of T-VESS/VESS in the proposed consumption of each prosumer group in Case I, Case II, and Case III are 

method. shown in Table 4 and Table 5. For the residential prosumers, in Table 4, 
Case IV: Without the real-time method and the day-ahead scheduled it can be seen in the daytime period that they will sell more energy to 

scheme in Case I is strictly executed in the real-time operation process enterprise prosumers for charging T-VESS/VESS of enterprise pro
(namely single optimal scheduling [35]). sumers, which exceeds the amount of energy selling. As a result, the 

Case V: Without the consideration of multiple trading preferences redundant PV power intended to sell to the utility grid is reduced by 
grades and the trading actions between prosumers with single prefer 20.41% and 16.58% in Case I and Case II, respectively. Also, the battery 
ence grade in Case I are implemented. is selected to reduce the charging energy. During the nighttime living 

period, compared with Case III, residential prosumers will charge their 
T-VESS/VESS by buying more discharged energy from the batteries of 
enterprise prosumers, which has the lower marginal cost than charging 

14



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E l e  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Fig. 13. Marginal utility curves of enterprise prosumer #91.  

Table 7 Table 8 
Numerical results in five cases.  Overall community costs in two methods with different forecast errors.  

Results Case I Case II Case III Case IV Case V Method Perfect σ = 0.1Yt σ = 0.2Yt σ = 0.3Yt 
forecast 

P2P trading energy 1907.3 1896.5 1844.2 1856.5 1801.2 
kWh kWh kWh kWh kWh MPC 413.8 CNY 424.2 431.3 441.1 

Energy sold to the 177.8 186.1 232.1 221.9 273.8 CNY CNY CNY 
utility grid kWh kWh kWh kWh kWh Single optimal 433.1 CNY 447.7 451.4 461.8 

Overall cost of 413.8 429.8 564.3 433.1 464.2 scheduling CNY CNY CNY  
community CNY CNY CNY CNY CNY 

Renewable resources 88.7 % 85.6 % 75 % 86.3 % 83.6 % 
self-consumption from the utility grid. Therefore, T-VESS/VESS in Case I and Case II can 
ratio provide more flexibility on energy resources scheduling and trading 

Peak transmission 178.8 186.7 189.1 193.7 201.8 
power kW kW kW kW kW  compared with Case III. 

At the same time, in contrast to Case II, Case I takes into account the 
time-varying nature of T-VESS, which leads to more accurate quantifi

the battery in the daytime period. cation of key parameters. T-VESS can further enhance the energy re
On the other hand, enterprise prosumers will adjust accordingly their sources transactions due to its higher capacity at most times of a day. E. 

energy resources scheduling and trading schemes. As shown in Table 5, g. from 7:30 to 24:00, since the capacity of T-VESS is higher than that of 
the changing trend of enterprise prosumers in energy transactions is the VESS in Case II, the trading energy in Case I is higher, which can reduce 
same as that of residential prosumers. The T-VESS/VESS is discharged to the energy purchased from grid and battery discharging energy. Based 
reduce the power production from the battery and the power purchased on the above analysis, it is obvious that the method in Case I can utilize 

15



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

Table 9 around 0.4 kW by optimization, as shown in Fig. 10(b). The positive 
Numerical results in two methods with different forecast errors.  value in Fig. 10(b) indicates charging, otherwise discharging. The in

Results Method Perfect σ = σ = σ = crease of T-VESS charging/discharging power in Case I compared with 
forecast 0.1Yt 0.2Yt 0.3Yt Case II also follows the same changing trend (as presented in Fig. 10(a)) 

P2P trading MPC 1907.3 1889.2 1873.1 1861.5 as the capacity of T-VESS. 
energy kWh kWh kWh kWh Furthermore, to demonstrate the impact of the T-VESS in Case I on 

single 1856.5 1839.3 1826.9 1813.2 the energy supplies and demands quantification of prosumers, the 
optimal kWh kWh kWh kWh whole-day energy supplies and demands results of both prosumers #1 
scheduling 

Energy sold to the MPC 177.8 195.9 212.0 223.3 and #91 in Case I and Case II are presented in Fig. 11. A positive power 
utility grid kWh kWh kWh kWh value represents the total power of energy supplies, otherwise the total 

single 221.9 239.1 251.5 265.2 power of energy demands. It can be seen that during the T-VESS being 
optimal kWh kWh kWh kWh charged/discharged in Case I, the total powers of energy demands are 
scheduling unchanged/increased while the total powers of energy supplies are 

Renewable MPC 88.7 % 87.6 % 86.5 % 85.8 % 
resources self- single 86.3 % 85.0 % 84.7 % 83.5 % strengthened/unchanged compared with Case II, respectively. 
consumption optimal Specifically, Fig. 12 shows the marginal cost curves of residential 
ratio scheduling prosumer #1 at t = 45 (11:00–11:15) and t = 46 (11:15–11:30), and 

Peak transmission MPC 178.8 197.1 214.3 227.2 Fig. 13 shows the energy purchasing utility curves of enterprise pro
power kWh kWh kWh kWh 

single 193.7 210.1 223.1 238.5 sumer #91 at t = 63 (17:30–17:45) and t = 64 (17:45–18:00). It can be 
optimal kWh kWh kWh kWh  seen that the tradable power and marginal price of multi-type energy 
scheduling resources for energy trading can be obtained by analyzing the curves. It 

also can be found that the utilization of the T-VESS in Case I can improve 
the flexibility of energy supplies and demands of prosumers compared 

Table 10 with Case II, resulting better economy for prosumers. For the residential 
Overall cost of the community with different ranges.  prosumer, as shown in Fig. 13(a) and (b), due to lower marginal cost 

(0.46 CNY/kWh) at t = 45, more PV power production (0.46 kWh) at 
Ranges Case I Case II this interval can be saved into the T-VESS in Case I due to its higher 
18 ◦C-20 ◦C 413.8 CNY 429.8 CNY capacity compared with Case II. It will be sold to the utility grid at t = 46 
17 ◦C-20 ◦C 392.1 CNY 418.7 CNY when the marginal cost is higher (0.63 CNY/kWh), which makes the 
16 ◦C-20 ◦C 371.5 CNY 414.2 CNY 
15 ◦C-20 ◦C 371.6 CNY 410.3 CNY increase of the total power of energy supplies at that time. 
14 ◦C-20 ◦C 372.4 CNY 410.5 CNY  For the enterprise prosumer, as shown in Fig. 13(a) and (b), more 

energy is charged into the T-VESS in Case I with the higher capacity at t 
= 63 with the marginal utility (0.61 CNY/kWh) compared with Case II. It 

the T-VESS to facilitate well the complementary coordination of energy increases the total power of energy demands at t = 63. As a result, the 
resources between residential and enterprise prosumers. stored energy level of T-VESS in Case I can further reduce the grid energy 

Moreover, the system overall benefit can be improved when purchase demand of the prosumer at t = 64 where the marginal utility is 
considering the participation of T-VESS/VESS. The battery and EV 0.87 CNY/kWh. And the energy demand of T-VESS/VESS discharging in 
charging/discharging quantities are reduced, since T-VESS/VESS in Case Case I and Case II will not affect the total power of energy demands at t =
I and Case II has no degradation cost. Meanwhile, compared with Case 64. Overall, compared with Case II, the T-VESS in Case I can provide 
III, T-VESS/VESS in Case I and Case II provides more flexibility on energy more flexibility to the energy resources trading of prosumers.  
trading for prosumers, resulting in energy reduction exchanged with 
utility grid and P2P energy trading energy increment. At the same time, (3) Utilities analysis 
T-VESS in Case I can further make full use of the thermal storage ability 
of buildings. Due to the larger and more accurate capacity of T-VESS, T- Furthermore, the renewable energy self-consumption ability of the 
VESS in Case I can provide the greater adjustable ability on P2P energy microgrid with or without considering the T-VESS/VESS participation is 
trading. It can further promote the increment of P2P energy trading evaluated. During the daytime period, the redundant PV generation in 
quantity, charging/discharging quantity reduction of battery/EV, and Case I and Case II is better consumed since enterprise prosumers have 
the trading quantity reduction with the utility grid. The overall com purchased more PV energy provided by residential prosumers. And T- 
munity cost in Case I is reduced from 564.3 CNY to 429.8 CNY and 413.8 VESS in Case I with higher capacity can store much more PV generation 
CNY in Case II and Case III. From the perspective of individual pro for self-usage, which can further improve the PV energy self- 
sumers, the economic benefit of each residential prosumer in Case I is consumption compared with Case II. Compared with Case II and Case 
improved by increasing the profits to some extent, and that of each in III, energy transmitted from the microgrid to the utility grid in Case I is 
dustrial prosumer in Case I is enhanced by reducing some daily costs, decreased by 4.83% and 24.44%; local renewable energy self- 
compared with Case II and Case III, as shown in Fig. 9 and Table 6.  consumption ratio is increased by 3.1% and 13.7%; peak transmission 

power is decreased from 189.1 kW to 186.7 kW and 178.8 kW; and load 
(2) Analysis of the energy supply and demand quantifications peak-to-valley difference is decreased by 1.8% and 4.8%, respectively. 

Therefore, as summarized in Table 7, T-VESS in Case I can make full use 
Taking residential prosumer #1 as example, Fig. 10(a) shows the of the thermal storage capability in energy trading, and improve the 

quantified capacity of T-VESS/VESS in Case I and Case II. It can be seen overall utilities of the microgrid. Then, compared with the case without 
that capacity of VESS in Case II remains constant for the whole day EVs, the overall cost of the community in Case I is reduced by 1.6 %. The 
because it is only related to the indoor temperature comfort range. cost reduction is due to EVs’ participation in the P2P energy trading. 
While, capacity of T-VESS in Case I is regulated according to temperature Specifically, EVs’ batteries can store the purchased electricity from the 
changes during the daytime and nighttime living periods. And, when T- grid when the retail prices are low. And the stored electricity can be used 
VESS is charged resulting the indoor temperature incretion, its capacity when the retail prices are high. Moreover, the computational time is an 
is increased. Moreover, the T-VESS charging/discharging power is important aspect to evaluate the performance of a trading mechanism. 
influenced by the capacity of T-VESS and the retail price. T-VESS con The computational time of Case I is 209 s, and the time of other cases is 
ducts multiple charging/discharging behaviors with the power at similar as that of Case I, because these cases utilize the same pricing 

16



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E l e  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

method that contribute to the computational performance. heterogeneous trading preferences of prosumers. Several key conclu
sions are drawn form case study: 1) after considering the T-VESS, each 

5.3. Trading preferences and uncertainties prosumer obtains more economic benefits in P2P energy trading; 2) the 
proposed method improves the comprehensive utility of the whole 

To validate the effectiveness of the proposed real time method community, including operational cost, renewable energy accommo
considering trading preference and uncertainty, Table 7 reports the dation and peak transmission power reduction. 3) the economic benefits 
numerical results in Case I, Case IV and Case V. For the trading prefer of the community can be further improved through setting a suitable 
ence, due to the larger number of successfully matched transactions temperature comfort range. 
between prosumers compared with Case V, it can be seen that in Case I The future research will be focused on the following aspects:  
considering the trading preference, the total amount of trading energy is 
increased. And, less energy is traded to the utility grid, which shows that (1) Study the applicability of the price optimization utilizing the 
the proposed method can facilitate the local P2P energy trading among historical trading information in different market conditions.  
prosumers. As a result, compared with Case V, the daily cost of the whole (2) Consider the optimal profit of system operator in P2P energy 
community is decreased by 10.8 % in Case I. And the profit of utility grid trading to sustain the operation and maintenance of grid. 
is reduced. It can be also found that both the local renewable integration Therefore, the coordination between system operator and pro
can be improved. Meanwhile, for the uncertainty, the optimization is sumers will be studied referred to [37,38]. 
only executed once throughout the overall scheduling day using the day- 
ahead forecast data in Case IV. Each type of the whole community CRediT authorship contribution statement 
utilities in Case I has increased compared with Case IV by applying the 
MPC method. Xiaoyu Wang: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Writing – 

To further highlight the advantages of the MPC method, we have also original draft. Hongjie Jia: Supervision. Zibo Wang: Validation, Visu
presented more cases using MPC method and the single optimal sched alization, Data curation. Xiaolong Jin: Writing – review & editing. 
uling method with different levels of uncertainty. And the different Youjun Deng: Data curation, Writing – review & editing. Yunfei Mu: 
levels of uncertainty can be represented as the different forecast errors Visualization, Investigation. Xiaodan Yu: Data curation, Formal 
[36], which are obtained by adjusting the forecast data with a white analysis. 
noise distortion following a Gaussian distribution over each prediction 
horizon. The overall community costs in two methods with different Declaration of Competing Interest 
forecast errors are shown in Table 8. It can be observed that both the 
costs in two methods are increasing with the increase of the forecast The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
errors. Meanwhile, the costs using MPC are lower than that using the interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
single optimal scheduling method with different forecast errors. It is the work reported in this paper. 
worth noting that since using MPC method can consider the adjusted 
initial state of energy resources in each time slot, the costs of prosumers Data availability 
with perfect forecast using single optimal scheduling method are much 
higher than that using MPC. The other results using MPC method with The data that has been used is confidential. 
different forecast errors perform better than that the single optimal 
scheduling method, as shown in Table 9. Therefore, the MPC method is Acknowledgments 
more advanced than the single optimal scheduling method. 

This work was supported by the project of NSFC of China (Nos. 
5.4. Sensitivity analysis 52277116 and 52207133) and the National Natural Science Foundation 

of China Smart Grid Joint Foundation (No. U2066211). 
As presented in Section 2.3, the capacity and flexibility of the T-VESS 

in Case I and the VESS in Case II are bound to the indoor temperature References 
comfort range setting of prosumers. In this section, a sensitivity analysis 
is conducted to validate its impact. Table 10 shows the energy cost of the [1] Tushar W, Yuen C, Saha TK, et al. Peer-to-peer energy systems for connected 

communities: A review of recent advances and emerging challenges. Appl Energy 
whole community with different indoor temperature comfort range 2021;282:116131. 
settings. The greater the indoor temperature comfort range setting, the [2] Jin X, Wu Q, Jia H. Local flexibility markets: Literature review on concepts, models 
higher the scheduling flexibility of the T-VESS will be. It can be seen and clearing methods. Appl Energy 2020;261:114387. 

from Table 10 that with the broadening of indoor temperature comfort [3] Pouttu A, Haapola J, Ahokanga P, et al. P2P model for distributed energy trading, 
grid control and ICT for local smart grids. In: 2017 European Conference on 

range, the energy cost is decreased gradually. Especially, when the Networks and Communications (EuCNC); 2017, pp. 1–6. 
bandwidth of the indoor temperature comfort range is set to over 3 ◦C in [4] Nosratabadi SM, Hooshmand RA, Gholipour E. A comprehensive review on 
Case I or 4 ◦C in Case II, the trend of energy cost reduction is no longer microgrid and virtual power plant concepts employed for distributed energy 

resources scheduling in power systems. Renew Sustain Energy Rev 2017;67: 
obvious. 341–63. 

[5] Morstyn T, Farrell N, Darby SJ, McCulloch MD. Using peer-to-peer energy-trading 
6. Conclusion platforms to incentivize prosumers to form federated power plants. Nat Energy 

2018;3(2):94–101. 
[6] Zhang C, Wu J, Zhou Y, et al. Peer-to-Peer energy trading in a Microgrid. Appl 

This paper proposes a novel real time P2P energy trading method Energy 2018;220:1–12. 
with the utilization of T-VESS. A T-VESS model is developed and inte [7] Dong J, Song C, Liu S, et al. Decentralized peer-to-peer energy trading strategy in 

energy blockchain environment: A game-theoretic approach. Appl Energy 2022; 
grated into the energy resources scheduling model of prosumers. Then, 325:119852. 
an MPC-based P2P energy trading method is proposed, which includes [8] An J, Lee M, Yeom S, et al. Determining the Peer-to-Peer electricity trading price 
energy supply and demand quantification stage and transaction price and strategy for energy prosumers and consumers within a microgrid. Appl Energy 

2020;261:114335. 
optimization stage. The quantified energy supplies and demands are [9] Zhou Y, Wu J, Song G, et al. Framework design and optimal bidding strategy for 
used as input into the second stage to determine the optimal energy ancillary service provision from a peer-to-peer energy trading community. Appl 
transaction prices. The time-varying nature of T-VESS can be captured Energy 2020;278:115671. 

effectively. Moreover, a distributed P2P energy trading actions imple
mentation method is proposed based on the CDA, which can preserve 

17



X. Wang et al.                                                                                                                                            I  n t e  r n  a  t i o n  a  l  J o  u  r n  a  l  o f   E  le  c t r  i c a  l  P  o w   e r   a n  d   E  n  e r g  y   S y  s t e  m   s 155 (2024) 109547

[10] Deng Y, Zhang Y, Luo F, et al. Operational planning of centralized charging stations [25] Song M, Gao C, Ma S, et al. Distributed scheduling of HVACs based on transactive 
utilizing second-life battery energy storage system. IEEE Trans Sustain Energy energy and ADMM. Appl Energy 2022;325:119831. 
2021;12(1):387–99. [26] Wu J, Hu J, Ai X, et al. Multi-time scale energy management of electric vehicle 

[11] Deng Y, Zhang Y, Luo F, et al. Many-objective HEMS based multi-scale occupant model-based prosumers by using virtual battery model. Appl Energy 2019;251: 
satisfaction modelling and second-life BESS utilization. IEEE Trans Sustain Energy 113312. 
2022;13(2):934–47. [27] Cheng L, Jia Y, Zhao X. Fully decentralized peer-to-peer energy sharing framework 

[12] Zhang Z, Tang H, Wang P, et al. Two-stage bidding strategy for Peer-to-Peer energy for smart buildings with local battery system and aggregated electric vehicles. Appl 
trading of Nanogrid. IEEE Trans Ind Appl 2020;56(2):1000–9. Energy 2021;299(1):117243. 

[13] Li S, Zhu J, Dong H. A novel energy sharing mechanism for smart microgrid. IEEE [28] Mea B, Ms A, Dt A. A hierarchical and decentralized energy management system 
Trans Smart Grid 2021;99:1. for peer-to-peer energy trading. Appl Energy 291, pp. 116766. 

[14] Wang Z, Yu X, Mu Y, et al. Peer-to-Peer energy trading strategy for energy balance [29] Li J, Xu GD, Wang J, et al. P2P multigrade energy trading for heterogeneous 
service provider (EBSP) considering market elasticity in community microgrid. distributed energy resources and flexible demand. IEEE Trans on Smart Grid 2023; 
Appl Energy 2021;303:117596. 14:1577–89. 

[15] Wang Z, Yu X, Mu Y, et al. A distributed Peer-to-Peer energy transaction method [30] Morstyn T, McCulloch M. Multiclass energy management for Peer-to-Peer energy 
for diversified prosumers in Urban Community Microgrid System. Appl Energy trading driven by prosumer preferences. IEEE Trans on Power Systems 2019;34: 
2020;260:114327. 4005–14. 

[16] Jin X, Mu Y, Jia H, et al. Dynamic economic dispatch of a hybrid energy microgrid [31] Cristofari C, Norvaisiene R, Canaletti J, et al. Innovative alternative solar thermal 
considering building based virtual energy storage system. Appl Energy 2016;194: solutions for housing in conservation-area sites listed as national heritage assets. 
386–98. Energ Buildings 2015;89:123–31. 

[17] Jin X, Jiang T, Mu Y, et al. Scheduling distributed energy resources and smart [32] Gjerstad S, Dickhaut J. Price formation in double auctions. Games Econ Behav 
buildings of a Microgrid via multi-time scale and model predictive control method. 1998;22(1):1–29. 
IET Renew Power Gener 2019;13(6):816–33. [33] Dashamir M, Richrad A, Christina J. Sizing domestic air-source heat pump systems 

[18] Song M, Gao C, Yan H, et al. Thermal battery modeling of inverter air conditioning with thermal storage under varying electrical load shifting strategies. Appl Energy 
for demand response. IEEE Trans Smart Grid 2017. 2019;255:1–14. 

[19] Vang D, Jing X, Qiu J, et al. Coordinated dispatch of virtual energy storage systems [34] Jiang T, Li Z, Jin X, et al. Flexible operation of active distribution network using 
in LV grids for voltage regulation. IEEE Trans Industrial Informatics 2018. integrated smart buildings with heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems. 

[20] Kumar K, Vijayakumar K, Kalpesh C. Virtual energy storage capacity estimation Appl Energy 2018;226:181–96. 
using ANN-based kWh modelling of refrigerators. IET Smart Grid 2018:31–9. [35] Lu Y, Yu X, Jin X, et al. Bi-level optimization framework for buildings to heating 

[21] Gao Y, Li S, Fu X, et al. Energy management and demand response with intelligent grid integration in integrated community energy systems. IEEE Trans Sustain 
learning for multi-thermal-zone buildings. Energy 2020;210:118411. Energy 2020;12(2):860–73. 

[22] Zhao X, Li L, Tao Y, et al. Aggregated operation of heterogeneous small-capacity [36] Zhou Y, Wang C, Wu J, et al. Optimal scheduling of aggregated thermostatically 
distributed energy resources in peer-to-peer energy trading. Int J Electr Power controlled loads with renewable generation in the intraday electricity market. Appl 
Energy Syst 2022;141:108162. Energy 2017;188:456–65. 

[23] Liu N, Tan L, Sun H, et al. Bilevel heat–electricity energy sharing for integrated [37] Liu Y, Gao Y, Li Y, et al. A non-iterative network utilization pricing mechanism for 
energy systems with energy hubs and prosumers. IEEE Trans Ind Inform 2022;18: P2P energy trading. CSEE J Power Energy Syst, doi: 10.17775/ 
3754–64. CSEEJPES.2022.01410. 

[24] Cui S, Xiao J. Game-based peer-to-peer energy sharing management for a [38] Yang Y, Chen Y, Hu G, et al. Optimal network charge for Peer-to-Peer energy 
community of energy buildings. Int J Electr Power Energy Syst 2020;123:106204. trading: a grid perspective. IEEE Trans on Power Systems 2023;38(3):2398–410. 

18