Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Energy & Buildings
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/enbuild

Optimizing multi-objective peer-to-peer energy trading in green homes: 
Robust strategies to address non-probabilistic uncertainty using IGDT with 
integrated demand response 

Hassan Gharibi a, Reza Gharibi a, Reza Khalili b,∗, Rahman Dashti a, Mousa Marzband c,d, 
Muhyaddin Rawa c,e

a Clinical-Laboratory Center of Power System & Protection, Faculty of Intelligent Systems Engineering & Data Science, Persian Gulf University, 7516913817, Bushehr, 
Iran
bDept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, USA
cDepartment of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, King Abdulaziz University, 21589, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia
d Center of Research Excellence in Renewable Energy and Power Systems, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, King Abdulaziz University, 21589, 
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia
e Smart Grids Research Group, Center of Research Excellence in Renewable Energy and Power Systems, King Abdulaziz University, 21589, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia

a r t i c l e  i n f o  a b s t r a c t

Keywords: Residential renewable energy systems, including Photovoltaic (PV), Energy Storage Systems (ESS), and hydro-
Peer-to-peer gen storage, are increasingly widespread, fostering a shift towards sustainable energy consumption. Peer-to-peer 
Uncertainty (P2P) energy trading emerges as a promising avenue for consumers to exchange self-generated renewable en-
Information gap decision theory ergy, promoting community resilience and green energy adoption. This study investigates the implications of 
Demand response program
Multi-objective P2P energy trading within microgrids, where homes are equipped with renewable sources and energy storage 
Microgrid systems. Leveraging Information Gap Decision Theory (IGDT), we address uncertainties inherent in consumer 

demand and renewable energy generation, enhancing the robustness of microgrid operations. Through Sequen-
tial Linear Goal Programming (SLGP), we analyze case studies with and without P2P energy exchange, revealing 
diverse outcomes. P2P energy trading leads to a significant 17% reduction in residential energy costs, stimu-
lating the uptake of renewables and fostering local energy autonomy. Furthermore, strategic optimization of 
energy exchange pathways within the green homes yields a notable 20.5% decrease in losses, enhancing overall 
system efficiency. Integrating demand response program (DRP) proves pivotal in reshaping energy consumption 
patterns, bolstering microgrid resilience, and mitigating residential expenses. These findings underscore the effi-
cacy of DR in microgrid management, empowering communities with enhanced adaptability, load management 
capabilities, and energy reliability.

1.  Introduction mains critically important, even though the supporting infrastructure 
is still underdeveloped in many regions worldwide. These modern resi-

1.1.  Motivation dences, equipped with Photovoltaic (PV) modules, various energy stor-
age systems (ESS), and electric vehicles, form what is known as home 

The growth of smart homes, with a 14.5% increase in recent years, Microgrids. These home Microgrids (called homes afterwards), compris-
has significantly contributed to the demand for energy within these ing individual smart homes, can be managed independently, presenting 
energy sectors, making them a pivotal part of the energy market [1]. opportunities for peer-to-peer (P2P) energy exchange among the homes. 
According to market forecasts [2], the global smart home market is This capability allows homeowners to share and receive energy, effec-
expected to grow significantly from $121 billion in 2024 to $633 bil- tively reducing their energy costs while promoting sustainability and en-
lion in 2032, representing a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of vironmental benefits [4,5]. The proliferation of smart homes and the ex-
23%. Additionally, ElectroIQ [3] predicts that global smart home adop- pansion of renewable energy sources, such as PV systems, have reshaped 
tion will increase from 18.9% in 2024 to 33.2% in 2028. Given this energy markets. However, challenges persist, particularly in integrat-
substantial growth trajectory, researching smart home technologies re- ing residual demand participation in energy markets and predicting

∗ Corresponding author.
 E-mail address: reza.khalili@stonybrook.edu (R. Khalili).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2025.116435
Received 20 February 2025; Received in revised form 6 September 2025; Accepted 9 September 2025
Available online 16 September 2025 
0378-7788/© 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

surrounding consumers’ electrical load behavior add complexity to the 
Nomenclature operation of these systems [6]. Therefore, there is a pressing need for 

efficient methods to evaluate uncertainty comprehensively, considering 
Acronyms the interconnected nature of different components within homes. Smart 
P2P Peer-to-peer homes encompass various components, including PVs, ESS, and hydro-
IGDT Information-gap decision theory gen storage, distributed unevenly among residences [8]. The diverse 
DRP Demand Response Program distribution of these components poses challenges in operation man-
DER Distributed Energy Resources agement and decision-making, requiring precise coordination to achieve 
ESS Energy Storage Systems optimal economic and environmental outcomes [9], which has been an 
PV Photovoltaic important research topic [10]. Moreover, the interconnectivity of smart 
SLGP Sequential Linear Goal Programming homes introduces challenges related to power losses and energy sharing, 
Indices necessitating optimization strategies that consider inherent constraints 

and requirements [11]. Addressing multiple objectives in home opti-
𝑡 Time interval mization adds further complexity, potentially leading to computation-
ℎ, 𝑘 Set of homes ally intensive decision-making processes and the exploration of diverse 
Parameters solution pathways. Therefore, selecting the most efficient problem mod-
𝐼𝑟 eling approach is crucial to prioritize objectives and identify optimal 

𝑡 Solar radiation intensity (kW/m2)
𝐴ℎ Surface area (m2) solutions aligned with the system’s requirements.
𝜂 Efficiency of PV (%) On the other hand, in MG optimization problems, two strategies 
SD Internal discharge coefficient (%/hour) exist: (1) planning and (2) scheduling. Planning requires investment 
𝜂 and long-term strategies with extensive data and economic calcula-
ch ESS charging efficiency (%)
𝜂dch ESS discharging efficiency (%) tions. Short-term scheduling enables optimal performance of existing 
MaxC infrastructure without additional investment. Multiple management and 

ℎ Maximum ESS capacity (kWh)
MinCℎ Minimum ESS storage level (kWh) scheduling levels can be beneficial following planning decisions. Plan-
SP Maximum ESS charging/discharging power ning problems, including energy storage and PV array sizing, focus on 

(kW) minimizing long-term costs including investment, operation, and main-
𝜂 tenance. One example of sizing problem for designing a microgrid is 
we Electrolyzer efficiency (%)
𝜂fc Fuel cell efficiency (%) [12]. Day-by-day microgrid scheduling focuses on optimal performance 
cf of existing components to reduce losses, costs, and manage short-term 

ℎ Conversion factor of H2 to electricity (kW/Kg)
GP𝑡 Real-time price (cent/kW) uncertainty. These strategies should be applied after planning. Table 1 
GFP𝑡 Feed-in Tariff (cent/kW) shows the scope of these approaches [13–18]. Furthermore, To encom-
Pnwe Electrolyzer capacity (kW) pass stability, reliability, and less-considered economic factors, design-
Pnfc Fuel cell capacity (kW) ing new objectives for P2P energy trading is important. A distance-
Snht Hydrogen storage capacity (kWh) based loss function is beneficial since proximity affects voltage drop, 

which is critical in low-voltage grids [19]. This impacts appliance per-
Variables formance and necessitates additional infrastructure investments for ca-
SEℎ,𝑡 Stored energy for home ℎ at time 𝑡 (kWh) bles [20], voltage regulators, and compensation components. Addition-
𝑠1ℎ,𝑡, 𝑠2ℎ,𝑡 Battery charging/discharging mode ally, maintaining localized energy trading supports real-time trading
BCHℎ,𝑡 Energy sent to ESS (kW) platforms.
BEℎ,𝑡 Energy used from ESS (kW)
GHℎ,𝑡 Hydrogen produced by electrolyzer (Kg) 1.2.  Literature review
Pweℎ,𝑡 Power consumed by electrolyzer (kW)
Pfcℎ,𝑡 Power produced by fuel cell (kW) The expansion of homes and the proliferation of distributed produc-
DEℎ,𝑡 Electric energy demand (kW) tion resources have transformed homes within the grid into both pro-
CHℎ,𝑡 Hydrogen consumed in fuel cell (Kg) ducers and consumers of energy. Extensive studies have proven the in-
PVEℎ,𝑡 Energy produced by PV (kW) crease of accessibility of energy because of distributed energy systems 
h1ℎ,𝑡 Fuel cell operating mode expansions [21,22]. Numerous studies have investigated P2P trading 
h2ℎ,𝑡 Electrolyzer operating mode for energy exchange among these entities, each offering unique insights 
HSℎ,𝑡 Hydrogen in storage (Kg) into market dynamics and optimization strategies. In [23], researchers 
P̂VE(ℎ, 𝑡) PV energy under uncertainty (kW) focused on optimizing the home quantity of flexible resources based 
D̂E(ℎ, 𝑡) Demand under uncertainty (kW) on model predictive control and proposed an automated learning pric-
𝛼 Deviation from projected values ing strategy. Introducing a model based on decentralized game theo-
GP𝑡 Grid energy purchase price (cent/kWh) ric mechanisms, [24] aimed to enhance the management of P2P en-
GE𝑡 Grid energy purchase (kWh) ergy trading, while incorporating transmission power losses. Address-
GFP𝑡 Selling price of energy to grid (cent/kWh) ing energy trading in an auction-based market, [25] sought to secure 
MGP Max grid energy exchange (kW) additional revenue while assessing its impact on feeder voltage, em-
MFEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 Energy sold/purchased in home (kW) phasizing the importance of market dynamics on grid stability. Lever-
MMGP Max energy exchange in microgrid (kW) aging the concept of homes, [26] strategically enhanced social satis-
MP𝑡 Price of electricity in microgrid (cent/kWh) faction and increased profits for participants in P2P market, empha-
𝐼buy,G sizing community-driven approaches to energy exchange. Meanwhile, 
ℎ,𝑡 , 𝐼 sell,Gℎ,𝑡 Binary grid trading state

[27] surveyed a blockchain-based energy trading network guaranteeing 
𝐼buy,P2Pℎ,𝑘,𝑡 , 𝐼 sell,P2Pℎ,𝑘,𝑡 Binary P2P trading state
𝑁1, 𝑁 ′ participants’ payoffs, and they used a novel decentralized swarm intel-

1 , 𝑁2, 𝑁 ′
2 Auxiliary vars in SLGP ligence technique to solve the game. However, these studies primarily 

evaluated the performance of P2P trading in homes without considering 
renewable resource behavior, which is heavily influenced by environ- the overall cost of supplying consumer load as an objective function in 
mental factors and weather conditions [6,7]. Additionally, uncertainties management problems. Additionally, the utilization and impact of ESS 

2 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Table 1 
Planning and scheduling differences.
 Concept  Planning  Scheduling
 Time Frame  Long-term (months or years)  Short-term (hourly or daily)
 Main Purpose  Sizing, placement, etc for minimizing investments and life span  Daily operation management for cost and loss reduction etc.
 Decision Variables  Size and location  Timing and operation of components with fixed sizes and places
 Investment  Yes  No (focusing on operation management)
 Application  Microgrid design  Scheduling of existing structure in any location

devices on P2P commerce were overlooked, highlighting the need for transmission losses among diverse units within the grid, alongside opti-
comprehensive analyses that incorporate storage solutions into energy mizing the cost of supplying consumer load and managing energy pro-
trading frameworks. duction. Thus, there remains a crucial gap in addressing these critical 

The integration of ESS significantly enhances the effectiveness of P2P aspects for comprehensive optimization of P2P energy trading systems.
trading, as evidenced by various studies in the field. Also it is proven In the realm of microgrid optimization, uncertainties are inherent 
that they could enhance the social equity and welfare [28]. For instance, [44], and the P2P energy trading domain is no exception. Many studies, 
[29] demonstrated the application of P2P concepts by integrating plug- from different disciplines, have been focused on modeling the energy 
in hybrid electric vehicles, thereby expanding market potential and im- output of RESs to showcase the importance of an accurate modeling 
proving performance through demand response incentives. In a similar [45–47], still the uncertainty is an inseparable part of the modeling. 
vein, [30] emphasized the positive effects of ESSs on community-based Recognizing and addressing the impact of uncertainty on P2P interac-
PV production, leading to increased social satisfaction within the com- tions is crucial for achieving comprehensive optimization. However, the 
munity. While [31] focused on maximizing social welfare using game prevailing uncertainties governing these systems have often been over-
theoretic approaches, none of these studies explicitly addressed the costs looked in the literature. To bridge this gap, [48] introduces a model that 
associated with load generation and supply or the behavior of home addresses real-time uncertainties associated with base load and renew-
components. To address this gap, [32] optimized energy management able energy generation, with the goal of minimizing costs for a collec-
during consumer load variations, effectively reducing costs and explor- tive of consumers engaged in P2P interactions. Similarly, [49] empha-
ing the impacts of P2P transactions on transformer lifetime. Similarly, sizes the importance of P2P transactions while employing a two-stage 
[33] presented a cost-oriented model, evaluating both environmental stochastic approach to consider uncertainties related to renewable re-
and economic consequences of distributed energy resources (DERs) in sources. Notably, the impact of the DRP was absent from their analysis. 
P2P trading frameworks. Furthermore, [34] proposed a predictive opti- On the other hand, [34,50] delve into the effect of the DRP on P2P 
mization model with a primary emphasis on cost considerations, while transactions, exploring uncertainties in PV production and load. How-
[35] examined various market structures with a specific focus on the ever, these studies overlook considerations for the impact of hydrogen 
integration of ESSs. Additionally, [36] introduced an energy market storage. In the realm of research objective, [51,52] integrate uncertain-
framework considering different energy classes and cost objectives. Al- ties associated with renewable energy resources and optimize for cost 
though ESS predominated in these studies, [37] expanded the scope by reduction. However, these studies tend to overlook uncertainties asso-
exploring the integration of hydrogen electric vehicles within a cost- ciated with the consumer’s electrical load. It is important to note that 
oriented P2P trading framework. Finally, [38] investigated the impact the investigated uncertainties predominantly use probabilistic methods, 
of both battery and hydrogen vehicles on P2P trading dynamics, propos- which, while insightful, may pose challenges in scenarios where req-
ing an improved management strategy to optimize system performance. uisite historical data is unavailable and may require extensive data and 
These studies collectively underscore the pivotal role of storage inte- calculations. Addressing these uncertainties comprehensively is vital for 
gration in enhancing the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of P2P energy ensuring the robustness and effectiveness of P2P energy trading systems 
trading systems. A detailed comparison with related works is presented in real-world applications.
in Table 2. Based on the above-mentioned studies, P2P trading in homes 

In the realm of P2P energy trading, simultaneous consideration of emerges as a valuable mechanism for energy exchange. However, this 
multiple objective functions can significantly enhance optimization ac- model faces several challenges that warrant further exploration. While 
curacy and bring solutions closer to real-world applicability, especially some researchers have delved into ESS and green hydrogen technolo-
considering previous studies that predominantly focused on single- gies, particularly in the context of hydrogen vehicles, crucial aspects 
objective goals. To address the challenge of optimizing multiple ob- such as the utilization of green hydrogen for home energy storage, its 
jectives, researchers in [39] introduced a pioneering P2P energy trad- conversion to electricity via fuel cells, and its potential role in P2P trad-
ing model for a virtual power plant, leveraging smart contracts on ing remain largely unexplored in the literature. Moreover, homes and 
the blockchain. This model maintained a cost objective function while their connection to upstream grid present distinct market structures that 
also prioritizing the preservation of contractors’ privacy, thereby ensur- facilitate energy exchanges through buying and selling. To conduct a 
ing comprehensive optimization. Furthermore, home planning, as elu- more accurate evaluation, it becomes imperative to investigate P2P trad-
cidated in [40], was approached through the lens of cost objectives and ing performance not only within the microgrid but also extending to the 
network reliability, employing Nash equilibrium principles for multi- upstream market. Exploring optimization strategies in the presence of 
objective planning. Similarly, Nash equilibrium strategies were applied upstream network connectivity is an aspect that has received less at-
in [41] to address pricing considerations and determine optimal storage tention but is essential for a comprehensive understanding of P2P trad-
capacity within the microgrid infrastructure. Additionally, [42] delved ing dynamics. Furthermore, load response programs, aimed at reducing 
into the complexities of cost management, fair income distribution, and operating costs and load demand, require careful consideration in opti-
optimization by utilizing the weighted entropy method to handle multi- mizing home components. Analyzing consumer and producer behavior 
objective functions effectively. Exploring payment mechanisms and op- during the implementation of DRP, particularly the impact on consumer 
timal energy exchange, [43] introduced the coefficient alternating di- behavior, is an area that demands further investigation to fully grasp its 
rection method, while [15] investigated cost management and equitable implications on P2P trading dynamics and overall home performance.
distribution using the Pareto method. Despite the extensive exploration Furthermore, for effective P2P trading in the grid, attention must be 
of dual-objective functions in P2P trading scenarios, none of the afore- given to the energy exchange infrastructure between individual homes. 
mentioned studies directly tackled the challenge of minimizing energy Power transmission lines, despite their vital role, face challenges such 

3 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Table 2 
A summary literature review.
 Paper Objective Multi-objective Solution Uncertainty Parameter Uncertainty Model  DRP  Hydrogen Storage  Battery

Method

 [40] Cost-Reliability Game theory technique $ $  $  $  "
(use PSO)

 [32] Cost $ $ "  $  $  "
 [33] Cost $ $ $  $  $  "
 [52] Cost $ Renewable energy Cardinality-constrained  $  $  "

generation and demand robust optimization
 [50] Cost $ Load-PV Stochastic Optimization  "  $  "
 [42] Cost & power fluctuation Entropy-weight $ $  $  $  "

& revenue distribution technique for order 
preference (TOPSIS) 
method

 [24] Welfare $ $ $  $  $  $
 [34] Cost $ $ $  $  $  "
 [27] Social welfare $ $ $  $  $  $
 [35] Cost $ $ $  $  $  "
 [23] Cost $ PV energy production incorporating cost of  $  $  $

uncertainty based on 
PDF

 [34] PV revenue $ PV generation Obtaining expected  "  $  "
forecasting error

 [15] total cost and each Pareto optimality $ $  $  $  "
houshold’s cost constraints

 [49] Consumption $ Wind and PV generation stochastic Optimization  $  $  "
 [36] Cost $ $ $  $  $  "
 [29] Social welfare $ $ $  $  $  "
 [39] Cost $ $ $  $  $  "
 [25] Additional revenue $ demand curve Scenario-based  "  $  $
 [48] Cost $ $ $  "  $  "
 [37] Cost $ $ $  "  $  $
 [30] Social welfare $ $ $  $  $  "
 [38] Comprehensive system Non-dominated sorting $ $  "  "  "

management genetic algorithm II
 [51] Each MG’s Costs Nash Equilibrium Wind power generation Robust optimization  $  $  "
 [31] Social welfare Cooperative game theory $ $  $  $  "

and Nash equilibrium
 [41] Sellers’ profit& buyers’ Two stage Game theory $ $  $  $  "

cost & storage capacity
 [26] Social welfare $ $ $  $  $  $
 This study Minimize costs and Goal programming Load and PV IGDT  "  "  "

losses using SLGP method generation

as energy transmission losses leading to increased costs and technical • RG3: Not utilizing and studying the behavior of residential hydrogen 
limitations. Many optimization studies and commercial efforts focus on storage devices and electricity production in P2P exchanges.
cost reduction, but the challenge of energy transmission loss in homes • RG4: Neglecting to assess and incorporate the DRP in managing and 
is often neglected in the literature. A comprehensive solution is needed optimizing consumer load supply during P2P trade.
to not only reduce total load provisioning costs but also prioritize P2P • RG5: Inadequate attention has been paid to successfully controlling 
exchange between neighboring homes to minimize power losses. Ad- and optimizing multiple homes while interfacing with the upstream 
ditionally, the home system contends with inherent uncertainties that market in the context of P2P exchange.
significantly impact precise performance. Uncertainties, such as vari-
ations in renewable resource production, particularly PVs, pose chal- 1.3.  Research contributions
lenges that need a comprehensive investigation. While many studies 
treat home loads as constants, ignoring uncertainties can introduce in- To address the identified RGs, this article proposes a dual-purpose 
accuracies. Addressing uncertainty through non-probabilistic methods, approach aimed at cost reduction and minimizing power losses. Ini-
with a focus on reducing computational complexity and leveraging fast tially, we optimize multiple homes to decrease the cost of supplying 
calculation methods, offers a promising avenue for understanding home consumer loads. Subsequently, utilizing the innovative SLGP method, 
behavior comprehensively. Finally, to the best of our knowledge, some we prioritize exchanges between units based on their locational prox-
of the major criteria that were overlooked in the preceding investiga- imity. This approach not only streamlines exchanges but also minimizes 
tions, representing research gaps (RGs), are listed below: energy losses, fostering a more efficient energy utilization framework. 

Recognizing the inherent uncertainties in P2P energy exchange and the 
• RG1: Failing to consider a distinct objective aimed at minimizing challenge of insufficient historical data, this article employs the Infor-
electrical energy transmission losses among homes in P2P exchange, mation Gap Decision Theory (IGDT) method. IGDT, a non-probabilistic 
alongside optimizing energy supply for consumers and cost reduc- approach, proves invaluable in dealing with the volume of calculations 
tion. and data unavailability. This method doesn’t rely on historical data, ef-

• RG2: Overlooking non-probabilistic methods to handle uncertainty fectively incorporating uncertainties related to PV and consumer load 
in home optimization and P2P exchanges, especially when facing a into the optimization process. The application of this non-probabilistic 
high computational workload due to extensive historical data or in approach enhances the robustness and reliability of P2P exchange
the absence of such data. system.

4 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

This study meticulously investigates the integration of multiple energy to retailers or P2P markets. This study presents an optimization 
home, harmonizing various components, including renewable energy model for P2P energy trading within a multiple homes equipped with 
resources, to align with burgeoning clean energy initiatives. Moreover, distributed energy technologies. The objective function aims to mini-
the incorporation of ESS is explored to optimize the efficiency of res- mize total energy costs by determining optimal business and operational 
idential homes, responding to emerging opportunities within the elec- decisions concerning PV and ESSs for each home in the local commu-
tricity market. The home is strategically linked to the upstream grid nity. The subsequent section outlines the MILP model for P2P energy 
to facilitate seamless P2P trading, thereby increasing interactions in the trading, depicted in Fig. 1, which illustrates the system under investiga-
electricity market. Within this framework, hydrogen storage devices are tion in this research.
employed as a clean energy solution in residential homes, with fuel cells 
ensuring on-demand electrical power generation. This innovative ap- 3.  Problem formulation
proach empowers these homes to efficiently store excess energy during 
favorable periods, subsequently injecting it into the grid. The study also To minimize costs for the group of consumers within the home by ef-
rigorously examines their impact on P2P transactions. Additionally, an ficiently planning energy production from available sources, the energy 
in-depth analysis is conducted on the role and influence of DRP on P2P management problem in the home is modeled as an MILP problem. The 
transactions and consumer load supply. This adaptability significantly following is an explanation of the home component modeling.
diminishes dependency on the upstream grid, especially during periods 
of heightened demand. The research contributions (RCs) of this research 3.1.  Assumptions
can be summarized as follows:

The P2P trading concept is designed to address existing challenges in 
• RC1: Using the SLGP method, addressing the problem with dual ob- the energy sector. There have been implementations in some countries 
jective functions to minimize operating costs and power losses by as pilot projects that helps with he study of outcomes of applying these 
prioritizing power exchange among nearby homes (to address RG1). systems in real-world under controlled conditions [53]. The following 

• RC2: Employing the non-probabilistic IGDT method to investigate assumptions are considered in this study:
home performance and P2P trading behavior under the influence of • Component sizes and structure:  Management techniques are ap-
electric load and PV generation uncertainty (to address RG2). plied to existing infrastructure with specified energy storage tech-

• RC3: Examining the utilization of hydrogen storage devices to lever- nologies of predetermined sizes. Photovoltaic system production po-
age clean energy in homes while providing demand from these ESS, tential is specified using existing data.
and investigating their effect on P2P exchanges (to address RG3). • Regulatory framework for P2P transactions: The deployment of 

• RC4: Investigating the impact of DRP on P2P exchanges and supply- P2P exchange mechanisms requires a regulatory system capable of 
ing loads to home customers (to address RG4 and RG5). authorizing transactions, monitoring price dynamics, and managing 

transaction volumes. This is critical to prevent technical disruptions 
1.4.  Paper organization in the existing distribution network [54]. This paper assumes such a 

supervisory framework exists.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 out- • Adaptation of existing regulations: A key challenge in implement-

lines the problem investigated in this study. The mathematical modeling ing P2P exchange lies in modifying current regulations, which were 
of the problem is detailed in Section 3. In addition, Section 4 presents designed for centralized systems, to accommodate its decentralized 
the case studies and the parameters utilized in this research. Finally, nature [55]. This study assumes that the regulatory structure is 
Section 5 offers the conclusion. adaptable and acknowledges the unique requirements of P2P trans-

actions.
2.  Problem description • Prosumer data sharing and security: The viability of P2P exchange 

depends on prosumers sharing certain datasets, which needs specific 
The structure of local energy markets enables active consumers to data security principles [56]. This analysis assumes that appropriate 

reduce their electric energy bills through participation. P2P energy ex- data protection mechanisms and regulatory provisions are in place.
change within a home represents a decentralized and localized energy • Technological infrastructure: The practical implementation of P2P 
marketplace. The primary objective is twofold: to mitigate losses in the exchange relies on advanced smart metering and IoT capabilities 
home and to minimize the cost of electric energy bills. The modeling is [57]. This paper assumes that these technologies are sufficiently de-
conducted in two stages utilizing the Goal Programming (GP) method, ployed and accessible to participants.
which is resolved using Sequential Linear Goal Programming (SLGP) cri-
teria. SLGP is an iterative optimization technique that addresses multi- 3.2.  Load modeling and PV
objective problems by solving them sequentially based on predefined 
priorities. Instead of optimizing all objectives simultaneously, it first P2P electric energy sharing among homes 𝐻 in a community is con-
determines the optimal solution for the highest-priority goal and then sidered in the general case without any losses. Throughout the day, PV 
integrates this result as a constraint while solving for lower-priority ob- generate varying amounts of electrical energy. Additionally, the energy 
jectives. Accordingly, the approach first optimizes the highest-priority consumption patterns of users vary. 
objective and then incorporates its outcome as a constraint while ad- DEℎ,𝑡 = {DEℎ,1,DEℎ,2,… ,DEℎ,𝑇 } (1)
dressing the remaining objectives. In this case, the Goal Programming 
method prioritizes minimizing energy bill costs in Stage 1, ensuring an where 𝑡 is the specific time in the planning period (one day), 𝑇  is the 
optimal financial outcome before proceeding to Stage 2, where power total number of time periods, and DEℎ,𝑡 is the electric energy demand. 
transmission distance is decresed to further reduce energy losses within Eq.  (2) represents how much electrical energy is generated by PV for 
the community. Planning is strategized to minimize losses by transfer- each home over the planning horizon. 
ring energy within the home over the shortest distances, prioritizing PVEℎ,𝑡 = {PVEℎ,1,PVEℎ,2,… ,PVEℎ,𝑇 } (2)
P2P energy exchange among homes in close proximity. Consumers are where the amount of energy produced by PV is PVEℎ,𝑡. According to Eq. classified into three categories: (a) those without PV and ESS, (b) those 
with PV and ESS, and (c) those with PV and hydrogen storage as shown (3), the PV output is a function of the radiation received in the desired 

area, the size and effectiveness of PV arrays, and other factors [58]. 
in Fig. 1. In these scenarios, consumers can import energy from either 
a retailer or a P2P marketplace, and likewise, they can export excess PVEℎ,𝑡 = 𝐴ℎ ⋅ 𝜂 ⋅ 𝐼𝑟𝑡 (3)

5 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 1. The studied network.

where 𝐴ℎ is the surface area (m2) of PV for each home, 𝐼𝑟𝑡 is the sun lationship between hydrogen consumption and fuel cell output in terms 
radiation’s intensity (kW/m2), and 𝜂 is the efficiency of PV. of power. The electrolyzer and fuel cell’s maximum power output and 

consumption are shown in Eqs.  (13) and (14). Production and consump-
3.3.  ESS Modeling tion of hydrogen are not carried out simultaneously, based on Eq.  (15). 

The amount of hydrogen in the hydrogen storage during the first hour is 
According to Eq.  (4), the stored energy in the first time step depends shown in Eq.  (16). The quantity of hydrogen stored in the ensuing hours 

on the initial storage energy, the storage efficiency, and the discharge is also determined by Eq.  (17). The maximum level of hydrogen storage 
rate. Eq.  (5) describes how the quantity of energy stored at later times is determined by Eq.  (18) and Eq.  (19) indicates that the amount of 
is influenced by the energy stored in the previous time step, the stor- hydrogen stored at the final hour of the analyzed time should be equal 
age efficiency, and the discharge rate. Eq.  (6) ensures that the stored to the value of the initial storage [59].
energy remains within the maximum storage capacity and the mini-
mum energy level. In addition to limiting the maximum charge and 𝑃

GHℎ,𝑡 =
𝑤𝑒,ℎ,𝑡 ⋅ 𝜂𝑤𝑒 (11)

discharge of the storage system, constraints in Eqs.  (7)–(9) prevent 𝑐𝑓ℎ
their simultaneous operation. According to Eq.  (10), the ESS’s energy 𝑃

CH 𝑓𝑐,ℎ
level should be equal at the end of the simulation time as it was at the ℎ,𝑡 =

,𝑡 (12)
𝑐𝑓ℎ ⋅ 𝜂fc

beginning. 𝑃𝑤𝑒,ℎ,𝑡 ≤ ℎ1ℎ,𝑡 ⋅ 𝑃𝑛𝑤𝑒 (13)
BE

SE(ℎ,1) = SE(ℎ,0) ⋅ SDℎ + BCH(ℎ,1) ⋅ 𝜂 − (ℎ,1)
ch (4) 𝑃𝑓𝑐,ℎ,𝑡 ≤ ℎ2ℎ,𝑡 ⋅ 𝑃𝑛𝑓𝑐 (14)

ℎ 𝜂dchℎ ℎ1ℎ,𝑡 + ℎ2ℎ,𝑡 ≤ 1 (15)
BE

SE )
(ℎ,𝑡) = SE(ℎ,𝑡−1) ⋅ SDℎ + BCH

(ℎ,𝑡
(ℎ,𝑡) ⋅ 𝜂ch − (5) HSℎ,1 = HSℎ,0 + GHℎ,1 − CHℎ,1 (16)

ℎ 𝜂dchℎ HSℎ,𝑡 = HSℎ,𝑡−1 + GHℎ,𝑡 − CHℎ,𝑡 (17)
MinCℎ ≤ SE(ℎ,𝑡) ≤ MaxCℎ (6)

HSℎ,𝑡 ≤ 𝑆𝑛ℎ (18)
BCH(ℎ,𝑡) ≤ 𝑠1(ℎ,𝑡) ⋅ SPℎ (7)

HSℎ,24 = HSℎ,0 (19)
BE(ℎ,𝑡) ≤ 𝑠2(ℎ,𝑡) ⋅ SPℎ (8)
𝑠1(ℎ,𝑡) + 𝑠2(ℎ,𝑡) ≤ 1 (9) where GHℎ,𝑡 is the amount of the hydrogen produced (Kg), 𝑃𝑤𝑒,ℎ,𝑡 the 
SE(ℎ,24) = SE(ℎ,0) (10) quantity of energy used (kW), and 𝜂𝑤𝑒 the electrolyzer’s efficiency. CHℎ,𝑡

is the amount of hydrogen consumed (Kg), 𝑃𝑓𝑐,ℎ,𝑡 the fuel cell’s out-
where SE(ℎ,1) represents the amount of energy stored during the first put power (kW). 𝑐𝑓ℎ indicates the hydrogen energy conversion factor 
hour, SE(ℎ,0) the initial level of the storage, SDℎ the internal discharge co- (Kw/Kg), 𝜂fc represents the fuel cell efficiency, 𝑃𝑛𝑤𝑒 is the electrolyzer 
efficient, BE(ℎ,𝑡) and BCH(ℎ,1) are battery discharged and charged energy, capacity, 𝑃𝑛𝑓𝑐 indicates the fuel cell capacity, and ℎ1ℎ,𝑡 and ℎ2ℎ,𝑡 repre-
𝜂ch  and 𝜂dch  the efficiency of charging and discharging the storage, re-

ℎ ℎ sent the states of the electrolyzer and fuel cell, respectively. The amount 
spectively, MaxCℎ the maximum storage capacity, MinCℎ the minimum of hydrogen stored is indicated by HSℎ,𝑡, the starting amount of hydro-
energy level, 𝑠1(ℎ,𝑡) and 𝑠2(ℎ,𝑡) the charging and discharging mode of the gen in the storage is represented by HSℎ,0, and the amount of hydrogen 
storage, which can take the values of 0 or 1, and SPℎ the maximum utilized is denoted by CHℎ,𝑡.
charging and discharging power of the storage.
3.4.  Model of fuel cell, electrolyzer, and hydrogen storage 3.5.  Energy balance constraints

According to Eq.  (11), the amount of hydrogen generated corre- In the presence of P2P energy exchange, each home may provide the 
sponds to the energy used in the electrolyzer. Eq.  (12) expresses the re- energy it requires using its own resources, the grid, and its neighbors. 

6 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Eq.  (20) represents the constraint of the energy balance. Eq.  (29) implies that only a specific percentage of the load is sub-
∑ ject to change in a specific hour. This relationship also implies that the 

DEℎ,𝑡 + GFEℎ,𝑡 + MFEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 + BCHℎ,𝑡 + Pweℎ,𝑡 shifted is proportional to the actual demand. Notably, the total demand 
𝑘

∑ (20) transferred from peak to off-peak hours remains constant. Therefore, Eq. 
= GEℎ,𝑡 + MEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 + BEℎ,𝑡 + PVEℎ,𝑡 + Pfcℎ,𝑡 (30) is employed to ensure compliance with this constraint [61].

𝑘

where GEℎ,𝑡 represents the grid’s energy purchases, GFEℎ,𝑡 is the amount 3.9.  Objective function
of energy sold to the grid, MEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 is the energy purchased, and MFEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 is 
the energy sold in the home between homes ℎ and 𝑘. Eq.  (21) indicates The two objective functions (OF) (including OF1 and OF2) for the 
that in the presence of P2P energy exchange, home ℎ serves as the buyer given problem are set up so that OF1 in Eq.  (31) minimizes the cost 
and receives the energy offered by home 𝑘. of energy in the home. The OF2 in Eq.  (32) organizes the power flow 
ME between homes by considering the home’s least cost and the shortest 

ℎ,𝑘,𝑡 = MFE𝑘,ℎ,𝑡 (21)
possible distance for energy exchange [62]. As a result, the home mini-

3.6.  Constraints on purchasing and selling to and from the grid and home mizes energy losses while simultaneously reducing the cost of power.
∑ ∑∑

𝐶ℎ = (GP𝑡 ⋅ GEℎ,𝑡 − GFP𝑡 ⋅ GFEℎ,𝑡) + MP𝑡
The maximum amount of energy purchased and sold from or to the 𝑡 𝑡 𝑘

grid is determined by Eqs.  (22)–(24). In the grid, Eq.  (24) prevents con- ⋅ (MEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 −MFEℎ,𝑘,𝑡) (31)
current buying and selling [60]. Eqs.  (25)–(27) represent the constraints ∑

on energy exchange in the home, which are similar to the constraints Total cost: min 𝐶ℎ (32)
ℎ

on energy exchange in the grid [60]. ∑∑∑

Distance: min 𝐷ℎ,𝑘 ⋅MEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 (33)
0 ≤ GEℎ,𝑡 ≤ 𝐼buy,G 𝑡 𝑘 ℎ

ℎ,𝑡 ⋅MGP (22)

0 ≤ GFE where MEℎ,𝑡 is the quantity of energy purchased, 𝐶ℎ is the cost for power 
ℎ,𝑡 ≤ 𝐼 sell,Gℎ,𝑡 ⋅MGP (23)

for each home, MP𝑡 is the cost of energy in the home, and MFEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 is the 
𝐼buy,Gℎ,𝑡 + 𝐼 sell,Gℎ,𝑡 = 1 (24) amount of energy sold in the home. 𝐷ℎ,𝑘 is also the DISTANCE between 

homes.
0 ≤ MEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 ≤ 𝐼buy,P2Pℎ,𝑘,𝑡 ⋅MMGP (25)

0 ≤ MFEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 ≤ 𝐼 sell,P2Pℎ,𝑘,𝑡 ⋅MMGP (26) 3.10.  Two objective functions using the SLGP method
𝐼buy,P2Pℎ,𝑘,𝑡 + 𝐼 sell,P2Pℎ,𝑘,𝑡 = 1 (27) The simulation algorithm of the multi-objective model is depicted 

in Fig. 2. The SLGP method was employed to solve this multi-objective 
where the binary variables 𝐼buy,Gℎ,𝑡  and 𝐼buy,P2Pℎ,𝑘,𝑡  respectively represent the problem. With this method, the ideal objective functions of the problem 
states of purchasing energy from the grid and home, 𝐼 sell,Gℎ,𝑡  and 𝐼 sell,P2Pℎ,𝑘,𝑡 are transformed into a set of constraints, and new objective functions 
respectively represent the states of selling energy to the grid and home. are introduced. The following equations substitute the OF1 in Eq.  (31). 
It is worth mentioning that MGP and MMGP are considered as upper Since the objective of the problem is minimization, 𝑁 ′

1 must have the 
bounds in this formulation to release the upper limits caused by binary lowest value to minimize the cost of the home, thereby approaching the 
variables using big M theory. desired goal:

∑

𝐶ℎ +𝑁1 −𝑁 ′
1 = Goal (34)

3.7.  Price of electric energy in the home ℎ

New Objective Function 1 (OF1): min 𝑁 ′
1 (35)

The following equation can be utilized to calculate the price of elec-
tric energy in the home, which is equivalent to the average price of where Goals is the ideal problem’s objective and 𝑁1 and 𝑁 ′

1 are auxiliary 
obtaining energy from and supplying it to the grid [60]. variables used in the SLGP method. For the minimum distance, Eqs.  (36) 

GP
MP 𝑡 + GFP

and (37) are used to minimize the transmission distance. The solution 
𝑡 =

𝑡 (28)
2 process follows a sequential approach: first, OF1 is optimized. Then, 

OF2 is solved while considering all constraints, including the minimum 
where GP𝑡 is the price of buying energy from the grid, GFP𝑡 is the price 
of selling energy to the grid, and MP𝑡 is the price of exchanging energy 

cost constraint in Eq.  (38). This constraint ensures that the energy cost 
does not exceed the minimum cost obtained from OF1. As a result, the 

in the home. optimal minimum distance for power transmission between homes is 
determined.

3.8.  RTP DRP model
∑∑∑

𝐷 ′
ℎ,𝑘 ⋅MEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 +𝑁2 −𝑁2 = Goal (36)

The cost of energy consumed by the residential sector could be sig- 𝑡 𝑘 ℎ

nificantly affected by the price implied by the electricity market. In this New OF2: min 𝑁 ′
2 (37)

regard, consumers’ demand will change under the influence of price Total cost ≤ Total cost ′ (38)
variations. They could either shift their load to a period with lower en-
ergy prices or reduce their consumption in specific hours to save more In the second step of the optimization process, the primary focus is on 
money. Transferring the real market prices to consumers can encourage optimal energy exchange among homes while maintaining minimum 
them to decide to participate in DRP programs. It is noteworthy that physical distance for energy transmission. The transmission loss is as-
only a portion of consumers’ demand is affected in this program, which sumed to be proportional to transmission distance; therefore, energy 
is proportional to their actual demand in that specific hour. This concept exchange among homes with shorter distances results in lower trans-
represents real-time price-based DRP, which is formulated as follows: mission losses. It is important to note that the objective function in this 

step is inherently distance-based rather than representing actual power 
|DRL𝑡| ≤ 𝐶 ⋅ DE𝑡 (29) loss. This objective function approximates transmission loss reduction 
𝑇 by minimizing the distance for energy exchange. Consequently, the op-
∑

𝐷𝑅𝐿𝑡 = 0 (30) timization results emphasize optimal energy exchange among closer en-
𝑡=1 tities to reduce both transmission losses and associated costs.

7 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 2. Simulation process.

3.11.  Uncertainty modeling (1 − 𝛼) ⋅ D̂E(ℎ, 𝑡) ≤ DE(ℎ, 𝑡) ≤ (1 + 𝛼) ⋅ D̂E(ℎ, 𝑡) (44)
0 ≤ 𝛽 ≤ 1 (45)

The IGDT method offers a non-probabilistic approach for decision-
making in uncertain scenarios. This method establishes the range of po- where 𝛽 is the risk coefficient value determined for the maximum cost 
tential deviations for various variables, enabling decisions to be made of uncertainty.
about uncertain values even with limited information, as it does not 
rely on probability density functions or historical data. However, it does 4.  Numerical results
not account for conditions that are deemed unlikely due to its non-
probabilistic nature. The IGDT approach employs two method: robust- The modeling performance structure is illustrated in Fig. 3, with the 
ness and opportunism. initial step involving the definition of input data followed by the simu-

In the robustness method, an uncertainty interval 𝛼 is calculated to lation process. Fig. 4 depicts the demand for residential loads. The dis-
determine the maximum deviation from projected values for achieving tances among houses are clarified in Fig. 1. Data from the National Solar 
either maximum cost (robustness) or minimal desired cost (opportu- Radiation Database (NSRDB) for the city of Ottawa is utilized to deter-
nity). In this problem, the robustness method is employed. Given that mine the solar energy production levels [64]. The Suntech STP200S-
cost and distance are the objective functions, the robustness strategy 18/UB-1 PV module is selected, with specifications provided in Table 3 
aims to maximize cost while maintaining a predetermined distance. The [63]. The PV array configuration comprises three strings paralleled and 
robustness method function is defined as follows: eight modules arranged in series on each string. Fig. 5 illustrates the PV 

production levels, with the power of the PV module under standard test 
𝑓 (𝑞,𝑍𝑤) = max{𝛼 ∶ max𝑍(𝑞, 𝑢) ≤ 𝑍𝑤}, 𝛼 ≥ 0 (39) conditions (STC) set at 200W. Table 4 [63] presents the specifications 
where 𝑞 are the decision variables and 𝑢 are the variables with uncer- of ESS, a 19.2 kWh Tesla Powerwall. The hourly electricity price from 
tainty, 𝑍(𝑞, 𝑢) is the objective function derived in the problem without IESO historical reports is represented as the RTP in Fig. 6. Each home is 
uncertainty, and 𝑍𝑤 is the maximum cost determined in the uncertainty limited to exchanging a maximum of 100 kWh of power with the grid. 
problem. An electrolyzer with a capacity of 6 kW and an efficiency of 80% is uti-

The objective function equations are converted into Eq.  (40) and the lized to convert electrical energy into hydrogen [65]. Additionally, a fuel 
constraints in Eqs.  (41) to (45) are added to the problem, taking into cell with a capacity of 4 kW and a 40% electrical efficiency is employed 
account the uncertainty in the amount of PV output and the load demand to convert stored hydrogen into electrical energy [66]. It is assumed 
of homes. Also, in Eq.  (20), P̂VE(ℎ, 𝑡) and D̂E(ℎ, 𝑡) replace PVE(ℎ, 𝑡) and that hydrogen has a storage capacity of 2 kg, with 1 kg capable of being 
DE(ℎ, 𝑡) [63]. converted into 40 kWh of electrical energy [59]. The characteristics of 

the fuel cell, hydrogen storage, and electrolyzer are summarized in Ta-
max 𝛼 (40) ble 5. Parameters and variables are denoted in kWh, kW, and cents/kWh 
𝑍 to represent energy, power, and the price of electrical energy,

𝑤 = (1 + 𝛽) ⋅𝑍 (41)
respectively.

𝑍 ≤ 𝑍𝑤 (42) The numerical investigation comprises two case studies (CS), each 
(1 − 𝛼) ⋅ P̂VE(ℎ, 𝑡) ≤ PVE(ℎ, 𝑡) ≤ (1 + 𝛼) ⋅ P̂VE(ℎ, 𝑡) (43) of which includes four sub-case studies (CSa-CSd)).

8 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 3. Modeling performance structure.

Fig. 4. Demand of the homes and total demand.

Table 4 
Table 3 Battery energy storage specifications.
Solar module specifications.
  Description  Specifications
Description  Specifications
 PV  Storage capacity (kWh)  19.2

module name and model  Suntech STP200S-18/UB-1
  Minimum charging power (kW)  3.3
Maximum power in STC conditions (W)  200
 The tilt  Maximum discharge power (kW)  3.3

angle of the arrays (degrees)  45.42
  Charge and discharge efficiency (%)  95
Number of parallel strings  3
  Internal losses (%/day)  1
Number of serial modules in each string  8
 Length of each  SOCmin (kWh)  3.84

module (mm)  1482
  SOCmax (kWh)  15.36
Width of each module (mm)  992
  Initial storage energy level (kWh)  3.84
Module efficiency (%)  13.6

Table 5 
Fuel cell, hydrogen storage and electrolyzer specifications.
 Description  Specifications
 Fuel cell capacity (kW)  4
 Electrolyzer capacity (kW)  6
 Hydrogen storage capacity (Kg)  2
 Primary hydrogen in the storage (Kg)  0.5
 Conversion factor of hydrogen into electrical energy (kWh/Kg)  40
 Fuel cell electrical efficiency (%)  40
 Electrolyzer efficiency (%)  80

4.1.  Case study 1 (CS1): without uncertainty
•

Fig. 5. The produced power by solar cells. CS1a: This case study analyzes the energy exchange process with the 
grid without uncertainty.

9 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 6. The price of energy exchange within the grid.

– CS1a1: Energy exchange process with the grid in the absence of • CS2b: This case study analyzes the energy exchange in the home 
P2P energy exchange. while considering uncertainty.

– CS1a2: Energy exchange process with the grid, considering P2P – CS2b1: Energy exchange analysis in the home in Stage 1 in the 
energy exchange in the home in Stage 1 (Fig. 2). absence of P2P energy exchange (MEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 = MFEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 = 0).

– CS1a3: Energy exchange process with the grid, considering P2P – CS2b2: Energy exchange analysis in the home in Stage 1.
energy exchange in the home and applying Stage 2 (Fig. 2) of – CS2b3: Energy exchange analysis in the home in Stage 2.
optimization. The objective of optimization is to reduce the dis- • CS2c: This case study analyzes ESS and hydrogen storage perfor-
tances for energy transmission to minimize power loss. However, mance while considering uncertainty.
it is important to ensure that the resulting cost does not surpass – CS2c1: ESS and hydrogen storage performance in the absence of 
that of CS1a2. P2P energy exchange.

• CS1b: This case study analyzes the energy exchange in the home – CS2c2: ESS and hydrogen storage performance in Stage 1.
without uncertainty. – CS2c3: ESS and hydrogen storage performance in Stage 2.
– CS1b1: Energy exchange analysis in the home in Stage 1 in the • CS2d: This case study analyzes the effect of DRP on the performance 
absence of P2P energy exchange (MEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 = MFEℎ,𝑘,𝑡 = 0). of home components while considering P2P energy trading and mini-

– CS1b2: Energy exchange analysis in the home considering P2P mum distance for energy transmission between neighborhoods, with 
energy exchange in Stage 1. considering uncertainty.

– CS1b3: Energy exchange analysis in the home in Stage 2.
• CS1c: This case study analyzes ESS and hydrogen storage perfor- Moreover, the final structure of the case studies of this paper is illus-
mance without uncertainty. trated in Fig. 7 to better understand the aim and scope of this research.
– CS1c1: ESS and hydrogen storage performance in the absence of The outcomes from the proposed optimization model are presented 
P2P energy exchange. below, illustrating the optimal decisions made by the model over a 24-

– CS1c2: ESS and hydrogen storage performance in Stage 1. hour period. A comparison of different simulation scenarios’ approaches 
– CS1c3: ESS and hydrogen storage performance in Stage 2. to energy cost savings follows.

• CS1d: This case study analyzes the effect of DRP on the performance 
of home components while considering P2P energy trading and mini- 4.3.  CS1 (Analysis without uncertainty)
mum distance for energy transmission between neighborhoods, with-
out uncertainty. CS1 examines the home’s performance under conditions where un-

certainty is not considered. The analysis sub-case studies encompass 
4.2.  Case study 2 (CS2): with uncertainty the energy exchange process with the grid, energy exchange within the 

home, ESS performance, hydrogen storage, and the influence of DRP on 
Case Study 2 incorporates uncertainty related to PV production and home performance and peak energy usage reduction.

residential load. CS1a: The energy exchange dynamics between the grid and the home 
are shown in Fig. 8. In CS1a1, where there is no energy exchange within 

• CS2a: This case study analyzes the energy exchange process with the the home, homes within the neighborhood system draw their required 
grid while considering uncertainty. energy from the grid, while also supplying surplus energy back to the 
– CS2a1: Energy exchange process with the grid in the absence of grid. While there is no P2P energy exchange, CS1a1 shows that there 
P2P energy exchange. is some energy exchange with the grid throughout the middle of the 

– CS2a2: Energy exchange process with the grid, considering P2P day. This amount of purchase from the grid is related to units that do 
energy exchange in the home in Stage 1 (Fig. 2). not produce their own energy and can only supply their energy through 

– CS2a3: Considering P2P energy exchange in the home and apply- purchasing from the grid. In CS1a2 and CS1a3, P2P energy exchange 
ing Stage 2 (Fig. 2) of optimization. The objective of optimization occurs within the home. Here, the energy price within the home falls 
is to reduce the distances for energy transmission to minimize between the tariff for selling energy to the grid and the price for pur-
power loss. However, it is important to ensure that the resulting chasing energy from the grid. Consequently, homes strive to maximize 
cost does not surpass that of CS1a2. the sale of surplus energy to their neighbors, while homes with energy 

10 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 7. Overview of all case studies considered in this research.

Fig. 8. Energy exchange in different case studies with the network.

Table 6 CS1b3 where there is P2P energy exchange with the electric energy bill 
The cost of electric energy bills of homes in the micro-grid. in CS1b1 where there is no P2P energy exchange. As shown, P2P energy 

 Electricity Bill (Cent/day)  Improvement (%) exchange has reduced energy use by 17% compared to CS1b1 in which 
Peers ID

 there was no P2P energy exchange. It is also clear that, aside from the re-
CS1b3  CS1b2  CS1b1  CS1b3 vs. CS1b1  CS1b2 vs. CS1b1

duction of the overall electric energy bill, each participant’s bill has im-
 H1  74.4  73.7  80.3  7.2  8.1
 proved in CS1b2 and CS1b3, with the exception of two instances where 
H2  32.4  31.2  32.4  0.0  3.7
 H3  134.0  134.0  158.5  15.4  15.4 the energy exchange had to be rescheduled for this scenario. CS1b2 and 
 H4  18.6  20.9  49.0  61.8  57.3 CS1b3 have the same cost. In CS1b3, OF2 is to minimize the energy 
 H5  36.4  36.1  36.4  0.0  0.7 transmission path to reduce lost power. This is done in a way that en-
 Total  296.1  296.1  356.8  17.0  17.0 sures the cost does not surpass that of CS1b2.

The energy exchange between neighbors is rescheduled in CS1b3 
deficits obtain their required energy from nearby homes. As a result, in to reduce the physical distance of power transmission. It has been at-
CS1a2 and CS1a3, no surplus energy is sold to the grid, and there is a re- tempted to exchange power as much as possible between homes that 
duced reliance on grid-supplied energy, leading to decreased residential are close to one another in order to reduce losses in the home because 
electricity costs. it is assumed in this case study that grid losses are directly correlated 

with the physical distance and the amount of transmission power. The 
4.3.1.  CS1b (Energy exchange inside the home) value of OF2 of the problem is 12,092 in CS1b3 and 15,207 in CS1b2. 

Based on the demand profile and the quantity of energy exchanged As can be observed, CS1b3 involves moving the electric power over a 
with the grid and peers, the electric energy bill for each home is com- shorter distance than CS1b2, which causes the objective function to drop 
puted. The RTP and the feed-in tariff to the grid serve as the basis for by 20.5%. Losses in the network are decreased by transferring power 
the energy exchange between homes and the grid, while the price es- closer to the receiver. The energy exchange of home 5 with its neigh-
tablished in the home, which is a value between the purchase price bors has been investigated to determine the efficacy of the solution. 
and the feed-in tariff to the grid, serves as the basis for the exchange Fig. 9 shows the energy exchange when the goal of the cost reduction 
of energy between homes. Table 6 compares the studies of CS1b2 and problem is achieved and the distance-based losses are not taken into

11 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 9. Energy exchange of H5 in CS1a2.

account. However, Fig. 10 illustrates the least power exchange distance picted in different states in Figs. 13 and 14, respectively. In each of 
between home 5 and its neighbors while taking into account the low- the three case studies, the storage units are charged in the middle of 
est cost and in an effort to reduce the power exchange distance. As has the day, when the solar cells are generating energy, and discharged in 
been observed, in the reprogramming of energy exchange, the amount the late hours of the day. When the home demand exceeds the PV pro-
of power transmitted and received is the same in both conditions, but duction during some midday hours in CS1c1, where there is no P2P 
the form of power exchange has changed, and home 5 tries to exchange energy exchange within the home, the storage devices are discharged 
as much energy as it can with home 4, which is the nearest to it. This to make up the gap in demand. However, when P2P energy exchange 
reduces the value of the objective function. happens, homes fill this gap through their neighbors, and the stor-

The P2P energy exchange inside the home for CS1b2 and CS1b3 is age capacity is utilized for the last hours of the day. Homes equipped 
depicted in Figs. 11 and 12. The results indicate that each home ex- with storage have the ability to obtain energy from other homes that 
changes almost the same amount of energy per hour for both cases, with have excess energy and fulfill the energy requirements of themselves 
CS1b3 giving priority to energy exchange with the closest home when and other homes during the final hours of the day when solar power 
the minimum distance for transporting energy is taken into account. generation is not active. As mentioned, the price for selling energy 

to the grid is a fixed value for all hours, which is called grid-feeding 
4.3.2.  CS1c (ESS and hydrogen storage system performance) tariff. When using the P2P energy exchange, the price is the average 

The charge (negative values) and discharge (positive values) of the of this fixed price (grid-feeding tariff) and the hourly prices from the 
battery storage in home 5 and the hydrogen storage in home 1 are de- grid. This implies that consumers pay less price for local energy than

Fig. 10. Energy exchange of H5 in CS1a3.
12 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 11. Energy exchange inside the micro-grid in CS1b2.

Fig. 12. Energy exchange inside the micro-grid in CS1b3.

buying from the upper grid, which will reduce their costs at the end of obtain their energy from their neighbors at a cheaper cost than the grid. 
the day. Thus, DRP and P2P shift peak-hour load to midday when PV produc-

tion and storage capacity are available. Shifting the load to the middle 
4.3.3.  CS1d (DRP performance) of the day, when there is a surplus of PV production, not only reduces 

In this case study, incorporates the demand response program to peak load consumption in the home and the purchase of energy from the 
evaluate the home’s behavior. Fig. 15 illustrates the distribution of res- grid, but it also reduces storage losses. This functionality effectively de-
idential loads based on the home demand response program. The foun- creases the home’s peak demand, subsequently reducing overall energy 
dation of DRP lies in transitioning energy consumption from periods of costs.
high demand (peak prices and loads) to periods of low demand. If P2P Table 7 displays the values of the objective function, considering 
is not implemented, the load will shift from peak hours to hours with different percentages of load response participation within the home. It 
lower energy purchase prices from the network. Nevertheless, the mid- is evident that as the participation in load response increases, there is 
day hours are not considered viable choices because of their high prices. a notable decrease in energy costs attributed to load shifting from peak 
Fig. 15 demonstrates that when DRP is combined with P2P exchange, to off-peak hours and a reduction in the distance over which energy is 
as the participation rate of DRP rises, the load regularly shifts to the transferred between residences.
midday period, despite the peak network prices. This is because PV and Fig. 16 shows a comparison between home5′s battery performance 
energy storage systems exist. According to Fig. 8, when there is a P2P ex- when the home contributes 15% to load response and when it does not. 
change, during the midday when the PV are generating electricity, there Home 5 moves some of its load from peak price hours to off-peak price 
is no need to buy electricity from the grid. Instead, residences choose to hours by taking part in load response, and the battery’s operation could 

13 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 13. The amount of charge and discharge of battery in H5 in different cases.

Fig. 14. The amount of charge and discharge of hydrogen storage in H1 in different case studies.

Table 7 graph shows that altering the load profile directly influences the perfor-
Amount of the objective function in CS1d. mance of hydrogen storage. Shifting the energy demand of home 1 from 
 DRP Participation (%)  Total Cost (Cent)  Distance-Power variable (kW*m) a high-priced hour, like 7:00 PM, to hours with lower prices reveals that 
 hydrogen storage is unnecessary during that period. Instead, the stored 
0  296.1  12,092
 5  288.6  11,883 energy in hydrogen, such as at 9:00 PM, is discharged, supplying bene-
 10  281.5  11,208 ficial energy for the home.
 15  274.1  9795
 20  266.8  8970

4.4.  CS2 (Analysis considering uncertainty)

change as a result of this function. At 4:00 PM, during peak hours, a por- CS2 involves analyzing the home under conditions of uncertainty. 
tion of the home’s detachable energy demand is shifted to other times, Home energy demand and renewable energy outputs, like solar cell gen-
eliminating the need for a battery to supply power. Moreover, during eration, are subject to variability due to weather conditions. To capture 
this period, the battery undergoes some charging. Consequently, opti- this uncertainty realistically, the non-probabilistic IGDT method is ap-
mizing the battery’s performance involves adjusting the home’s energy plied, considering uncertainties in both home loads and PV generation. 
consumption pattern, ensuring the battery operates at its best capacity. This section investigates the behavior of homes and the dynamics of 

Fig. 17 illustrates the efficiency of hydrogen storage for home 1, con- peer-to-peer energy exchange within the home in the presence of uncer-
sidering the presence and absence of a home during load response. The tainties. The value of 𝛽 in the problem is set to 30%.

14 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 15. Demand curves considering sensitivity analysis on participation percentage of the consumers.

Fig. 16. The amount of charge and discharge of ESS in H5 considering 15% of participation in DRP.

4.4.1.  CS2a (Energy exchange with upstream grid) Table 8 
In CS2a, depicted in Fig. 18, the energy exchange between the home Electricity bill of the homes considering the impact of uncertainty on the home 

and the grid is examined under conditions of uncertainty. When the performance.
robustness strategy of the IGDT uncertainty method is applied to account  Electricity Bill (Cent)  Improvement (%)
for uncertainty in both load and PV generation, there is an increase in Peers ID
home load and a  CS2b3  CS2b2  CS2b1  CS2b3 vs. CS2b1  CS2b2 vs. CS2b1

decrease in PV generation. Consequently, the amount 
of energy purchased from the grid is expected to increase, as illustrated  H1  93.9  93.9  107.5  12.6  12.6
by the comparison between Figs. 8 and 18. However, the behavior of  H2  43.4  43.4  48.1  9.6  9.6

 H3  150.7  150.7  178.2  15.3  15.3
the homes remains largely similar to that observed in the previous case  H4  36.2  36.2  68.6  47.2  47.2
study.  H5  60.6  60.6  61.3  1.1  1.1

 Total  385.0  385.0  463.8  17  17
4.4.2.  CS2b (Energy exchange inside the home)

In CS2b, the cost of electric energy for homes within the home is 
examined under conditions of uncertainty. Table 8 presents the cost of egy implemented in the IGDT model. However, it is noteworthy that 
energy for homes, taking uncertainty into account. A comparison be- despite the uncertainty, the cost of energy is reduced when P2P energy 
tween Tables 6 and 8 reveals that when uncertainty is considered, the exchange is taken into consideration.
cost of home bills increases. This increase is attributed to the rise in Despite the uncertainty, the objective function in CS2b2 and CS2b3 
load and decrease in PV production, in line with the robustness strat- has values of 11,440 and 13050. This reduction of 12.3% indicates that 

15 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 17. The amount of charge and discharge of hydrogen storage in H1 considering 15% of participation in DRP.

Fig. 18. Power exchange between homes and the grid considering the uncertainty.

if the distance of energy transmission is reduced in CS2b3, energy will apparent as a result of the hydrogen storage’s poorer efficiency. In the 
be moved at closer distances and losses in the home will be reduced. presence of P2P energy exchange, excess solar energy generated by PV 

Figs. 19 and 20 depict the energy quantity that home 5 exchanges systems is primarily shared with other homes, reducing the need for hy-
within the home, taking into consideration both P2P energy exchange drogen storage. This helps lower the energy costs of the complex, which 
and the shortest distance for energy exchange between homes under the is the main objective.
current conditions of uncertainty. The amount of energy exchanged is 
reduced compared to Figs. 9 and 10 from CS1 since the load increased 
and the PV 4.4.4.  CS2d (DRP performance)

production decreased. It is further noted in this case study 
that the power transfer distance between home 5 and other homes is Fig. 23 illustrates home loads under uncertainty conditions, as well 

as the percentage contributions to the load response in Stage 2. In this 
minimized by using the distance reduction method. diagram, “DE” represents the home load without uncertainty considera-

tions, while “UC_DR” depicts the load of homes, factoring in uncertainty 
4.4.3.  CS2c (ESS and hydrogen storage performance) and various participation percentages in the load response. Due to the 

Figs. 21 and 22 depict how ESS and hydrogen storage operate during robustness strategy applied in the IGDT method, the load during un-
this case study; the behavior is similar to that of case study 1. However, certain conditions is higher than in certain states. According to Fig. 18 
the quantity of charge in the storage devices decreased due to a reduc- and Stage 2, the home is not required to purchase electricity from the 
tion in PV generation. The decline in energy storage inside units is more electrical network during hours when prices are at their highest. In this 

16 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 19. Energy exchange of H5 in the home in CS2b2 despite uncertainty.

Fig. 20. Energy exchange of H5 in the home in CS2b3 considering uncertainty.

situation, the purpose of DRP is to shift the load from high-demand hours specified increase (𝛽) in cost compared to the certain state. Hence, the 
to times when there is a surplus of PV production. This is done to min- energy cost within the home remains constant across various contribu-
imize storage losses, decrease peak load consumption in the home, and tions to load response. However, the power transfer mechanism within 
reduce the need to purchase electricity from the network. As depicted the home varies based on variations in load and PV production. As the 
in Fig. 23, the extent of load displacement depends on the level of par- percentage of participation in load response rises, the 𝛼 value also in-
ticipation in the load response, with a higher percentage of involvement creases, attributed to the redistribution of load from peak to non-peak 
leading to a greater amount of load displacement. hours. The augmentation of 𝛼 signifies an enhanced capacity to elevate 

Table 9 displays the objective function values, considering various the load and simultaneously reduce PV generation, all within a fixed-
levels of participation in load response within the home under condi- cost framework for the home.
tions of uncertainty. The uncertainty associated with load and PV pro- Fig. 24 illustrates the performance of the battery in H5 under con-
duction leads to an increase in load and a decrease in PV production. ditions of uncertainty, taking into account load response with a 15% 
Consequently, compared to the deterministic state, there is an elevation contribution. The presence of uncertainty in the home, leading to an 
in the values of the objective functions. When uncertainty is consid- increase in load and a decrease in PV production, alters the battery’s 
ered, the objective functions aim to maximize 𝛼 and minimize losses performance. This change results in a reduction in the amount of 
in the home. The robustness strategy within IGDT involves calculating stored energy and, consequently, a decrease in the energy discharged 
the maximum level of uncertainty in load and PV generation, given a by the battery. A comparison between Figs. 24 and 13 highlights 

17 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 21. The battery performance of H5 considering uncertainty.

Fig. 22. The hydrogen storage performance of H1 considering uncertainty.

Table 9 
Amount of the objective function in CS2.
 DRP Participation (%) 𝛼  Total Cost (Cent)  Distance-Power variable (kW*m)
 0  0.120  385.01  11181.3
 5  0.127  385.01  11339.0
 10  0.132  385.01  10743.3
 15  0.137  385.01  10554.3
 20  0.141  385.01  11121.1

the variation in battery performance in the presence and absence of the performance of the hydrogen storage, leading to a reduction in its 
uncertainty. utilization.

Fig. 25 depicts the performance of the hydrogen storage system in 
H1 amid uncertainty, taking into account load response with a 15% 4.4.5.  Transmitted distances
participation rate. A comparison between Figs. 25 and 14 reveals that To compare the impact of the proposed method, especially the 
incorporating the uncertainty of load and PV production also influences second stage of the optimization problem in SLGP, Table 10 is

18 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 23. The result of sensitivity analysis on percentage of participation DRP considering uncertainty.

Fig. 24. The battery performance of H5 considering uncertainty and DRP.

Table 10 
Transmitted distances comparison.
 Case Study  t6  t7  t8  t9  t10  t11  t12  t13  t14  t15  t16  t17  t18  t19  t21  Total
 CS1a2  80  140  140  140  40  100  140  80  140  80  80  160  160  80  60  1620 (base)
 CS1a3  60  60  60  60  40  100  140  80  140  80  80  160  160  40  60  1320 (18.5% ↓)
 CS2a2  60  160  80  140  100  140  60  60  60  160  100  80  160  0  0  1360 (16% ↓)
 CS2a3  100  60  80  80  100  140  60  60  60  160  100  80  160  0  0  1240 (23.5% ↓)

provided. The table shows that total distance transmitted by power tainty’s impact on P2P energy trading. In some hours, energy trans-
decreased across case studies. In CS1a3, which considers stage 2 mission distance decreased significantly to overcome risks from un-
of the optimization problem, the effect of this method is evident certain data. In CS2a3, the second management layer imposed by 
through a 18.5% reduction in energy trading proximity. Note that the second objective function from SLGP reduces distance further, 
costs remain the same for CS1a2 and CS1a3. Additionally, consid- demonstrating the proposed method’s further impact when considering
ering uncertainty decreases energy trading proximity due to uncer- uncertainty.

19 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Fig. 25. The hydrogen storage performance of H1 considering uncertainty and DRP.

5.  Conclusion and future work home losses, underscoring the importance of strategic planning in 
energy management.

This scholarly article delved into the intricate dynamics of P2P en- • Addressing uncertainty: Employed the IGDT method and robust-
ergy exchange within a home, examining its impact on minimizing en- ness strategy to tackle uncertainty within the home, ensuring re-
ergy expenses in a complex residential setting equipped with energy silient performance even in challenging conditions of load fluctu-
generation and storage facilities. Through comprehensive modeling and ations and PV generation variability.
strategic planning, the study investigated scenarios both with and with- • Effectiveness of demand response programs: Highlighted the ef-
out P2P energy exchange, aiming to optimize energy exchange routes fectiveness of DRP in enhancing home performance and reducing 
for reduced losses within the home. Employing a multi-objective ap- energy costs, emphasizing its role in mitigating peak demand and 
proach via goal programming, the study prioritized minimizing en- optimizing energy utilization.
ergy exchange distances between homes to concurrently diminish losses • Strategic planning for resilience: Emphasized the importance of 
within the home. As a result, the reduction in distance corresponded to proactive planning for worst-case scenarios to ensure resilience and 
a proportional decrease in home losses. In the context of P2P energy ex- cost-effectiveness in home operations, providing insights into effec-
change, the energy price was determined as the average cost of purchas- tive management strategies in uncertain environments.
ing and injecting energy into/from the network, incentivizing residences 
to engage in mutually beneficial energy exchange with their neighbors. For future research, a technological comparison could be conducted 
The research findings highlighted a significant 17% reduction in over- to evaluate which technologies would be most beneficial in P2P energy 
all energy costs for the complex when P2P energy exchange was inte- exchange structures. Additionally, the next phase should include long-
grated compared to scenarios without such exchanges among homes. term planning and evaluation of ESS lifespan to provide a more com-
Additionally, considering OF2 in the modeling results revealed a no- prehensive analysis.
table 20.5% reduction in home losses. To address uncertainty within the 
home, the study employed the Information Gap Decision Theory (IGDT) 
method and the robustness strategy, anticipating worst-case scenarios CRediT authorship contribution statement
with maximum increases in load and decreases in PV generation. Fur-
thermore, the incorporation of Demand Response Programs (DRP) was Hassan Gharibi: Writing – original draft, Software, Investigation;
found to enhance home performance and reduce energy costs for homes. Reza Gharibi: Writing – original draft, Software, Investigation; Reza 
In instances of certainty, DRP implementation led to a 7% reduction Khalili: Writing – original draft, Software; Rahman Dashti: Writing 
in energy costs, while in uncertain conditions, where costs were calcu- – review & editing, Validation; Mousa Marzband: Writing – review & 
lated based on worst-case scenarios, the application of DRP maintained editing; Muhyaddin Rawa: Writing – review & editing.
costs constant. Nevertheless, the increase in 𝛼 with greater participa-
tion in DRP indicated that the home, even under adverse conditions of 
higher load and less PV generation, could maintain its cost-effectiveness Data availability
through strategic demand response strategies.

These conclusions highlight the significant findings and contribu- Data will be made available on request.
tions of the research:

Acknowledgments
• Impact of P2P energy exchange: Demonstrated a notable reduction 
in energy costs and home losses through P2P energy exchange, show- This project was funded by the Deanship of Scientific Research (DSR) 
casing its potential for enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. at King Abdulaziz University, Jaddah, Saudi Arabia under grant no. (IPP: 

• Multi-objective optimization: Utilized goal programming to opti- 732-135-2025). The authors, therefore, acknowledge with thanks DSR 
mize energy exchange distances, leading to substantial reductions in for technical and financial support.

20 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

Declaration of competing interest [27] C. Edussuriya, U. Marikkar, S. Wickramasinghe, U. Jayasinghe, J. Alawatugoda, 
Peer-to-peer energy trading through swarm intelligent stackelberg game, Energies 

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 16 (5) (2023) 2434.
[28] N. Talebpour, H. Behrooz, M. Ilbeigi, Optimizing hybrid power networks to facilitate 

interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence equitable access to electricity, Sustain. Cities Soc. (2025) 106413.
the work reported in this paper. [29] A.M. Saatloo, M. Mirzaei, B. Mohammadi-ivatloo, A robust decentralized peer-to-

peer energy trading in community of flexible microgrids, IEEE Syst. J. 17 (2023) 
640–651. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSYST.2022.3197412

[30] T. Perger, L. Wachter, A. Fleischhacker, H. Auer, PV sharing in local communities: 
peer-to-peer trading under consideration of the prosumers’ willingness-to-pay, Sus-

References tain. Cities Soc. 66 (2021) 102634.
[31] S. Malik, M. Duffy, S. Thakur, B. Hayes, J. Breslin, A priority-based approach for 

[1] M. Marzband, M.H. Fouladfar, M.F. Akorede, G. Lightbody, E. Pouresmaeil, Frame- peer-to-peer energy trading using cooperative game theory in local energy commu-
work for smart transactive energy in home-microgrids considering coalition forma- nity, Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 137 (2022) 107865.
tion and demand side management, Sustain. Cities Soc. 40 (2018) 136–154. [32] S. Hussain, M.I. Azim, C. Lai, U. Eicker, New coordination framework for smart 

[2] Smart Home Market Size, Share & COVID-19 Impact Analysis, 2023, https://www. home peer-to-peer trading to reduce impact on distribution transformer, Energy 284 
fortunebusinessinsights.com/industry-reports/smart-home-market-101900. (2023) 129297.

[3] Smart Home Statistics, 2023, https://electroiq.com/stats/smart-home-statistics/. [33] H. Sahebi, M. Khodoomi, M. Seif, M. Pishvaee, T. Hanne, The benefits of peer-to-
[4] M. Marzband, F. Azarinejadian, M. Savaghebi, E. Pouresmaeil, J.M. Guerrero, G. peer renewable energy trading and battery storage backup for local grid, J. Energy 

Lightbody, Smart transactive energy framework in grid-connected multiple home Storage 63 (2023) 106970.
microgrids under independent and coalition operations, Renew. Energy 126 (2018) [34] Z. Zhang, R. Li, F. Li, A novel peer-to-peer local electricity market for joint trading 
95–106. of energy and uncertainty, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 11 (2) (2020) 1205–1215. https:

[5] H. Niaei, A. Masoumi, A.R. Jafari, M. Marzband, S.H. Hosseini, A. Mahmoudi, Smart //doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2019.2933574
peer-to-peer and transactive energy sharing architecture considering incentive- [35] A. Lüth, J.M. Zepter, P.C. Del Granado, R. Egging, Local electricity market designs 
based demand response programming under joint uncertainty and line outage con- for peer-to-peer trading: the role of battery flexibility, Appl. Energy 229 (2018) 
tingency, J. Clean Prod. 363 (2022) 132403. 1233–1243.

[6] M. Marzband, M. Javadi, S.A. Pourmousavi, G. Lightbody, An advanced retail elec- [36] T. Morstyn, M.D. McCulloch, Multiclass energy management for peer-to-peer en-
tricity market for active distribution systems and home microgrid interoperability ergy trading driven by prosumer preferences, IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 34 (5) (2019) 
based on game theory, Electr. Power Syst. Res. 157 (2018) 187–199. 4005–4014. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2018.2834472

[7] M.A. Mirzaei, M. Hemmati, K. Zare, M. Abapour, B. Mohammadi-Ivatloo, M. [37] Y. Li, C. Yu, Y. Liu, Z. Ni, L. Ge, X. Li, Collaborative operation between power 
Marzband, A. Anvari-Moghaddam, A novel hybrid two-stage framework for flexible network and hydrogen fueling stations with peer-to-peer energy trading, IEEE 
bidding strategy of reconfigurable micro-grid in day-ahead and real-time markets, Trans. Transp. Electrif. 9 (1) (2023) 1521–1540. https://doi.org/10.1109/TTE.
Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 123 (2020) 106293. 2022.3165804

[8] Q. Zhao, A. Basem, H.O. Shami, K. Mausam, M. Alsehli, A.I. Hameed, A. Alsham- [38] J. Liu, H. Yang, Y. Zhou, Peer-to-peer trading optimizations on net-zero energy com-
rani, H. Rajab, M. Ahmed, A.S. El-Shafay, Conceptual design and optimization of munities with energy storage of hydrogen and battery vehicles, Appl. Energy 302 
integrating renewable energy sources with hydrogen energy storage capabilities, (2021) 117578.
Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 79 (2024) 1313–1330. [39] S. Seven, G. Yao, A. Soran, A. Onen, S.M. Muyeen, Peer-to-peer energy trading 

[9] Y.B. Elias, M.Y. Yousef, A. Mohamed, A.A. Ali, M.A. Mosa, Energy management and in virtual power plant based on blockchain smart contracts, IEEE Access 8 (2020) 
demand side management framework for nano-grid under various utility strategies 175713–175726. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3026180
and consumer’s preference, Sci. Rep. 14 (1) (2024) 25757. [40] L. Ali, S.M. Muyeen, H. Bizhani, M.G. Simoes, Economic planning and comparative 

[10] N. Talebpour, M. Ilbeigi, Modeling and forecasting uncertainties in power exchange analysis of market-driven multi-microgrid system for peer-to-peer energy trading, 
between distributed energy systems and urban grid networks, Available at SSRN IEEE Trans Ind Appl 58 (3) (2022) 4025–4036. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIA.2022.
5342892 5 (2025) 1–13. 3152140

[11] A. Izanlo, A. Sheikholeslami, S.A. Gholamian, M. verij Kazemi, S.N. Hosseini, A New [41] B. Zheng, W. Wei, Y. Chen, Q. Wu, S. Mei, A peer-to-peer energy trading market 
Model for Matching Asks and Bids in P2P Energy Trading: Game Theory Method, embedded with residential shared energy storage units, Appl. Energy 308 (2022) 
Taylor & Francis, 2024, pp. 1–13. 118400.

[12] A.F. Nematollahi, H. Shahinzadeh, H. Nafisi, B. Vahidi, Y. Amirat, M. Benbouzid, [42] F. Zhao, Z. Li, D. Wang, T. Ma, Peer-to-peer energy sharing with demand-side man-
Sizing and sitting of DERs in active distribution networks incorporating load agement for fair revenue distribution and stable grid interaction in the photovoltaic 
prevailing uncertainties using probabilistic approaches, Appl. Sci. 11 (9) (2021) community, J. Clean Prod. 383 (2023) 135271.
4156. [43] J. Guerrero, D. Gebbran, S. Mhanna, A.C. Chapman, G. Verbič, Towards a trans-

[13] H. Sandhu, M. Kumar, Sizing and analysis of renewable energy and battery systems active energy system for integration of distributed energy resources: home energy 
in residential microgrids, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 3061 (2017) (1949) 7. management, distributed optimal power flow, and peer-to-peer energy trading, Re-

[14] M.A. Pardo, F.J. Navarro-Gonzalez, Sizing and scheduling optimisation method new. Sustain. Energy Rev. 132 (2020) 110000.
for off-grid battery photovoltaic irrigation networks, Renew. Energy 221 (2024) [44] N. Talebpour, M. Ilbeigi, Modeling and predicting uncertainty in tidal turbine power 
119822. output: a data-driven time-series approach, IEEE Access 13 (2025) 82986–82994.

[15] M.R. Alam, M. St-Hilaire, T. Kunz, Peer-to-peer energy trading among smart homes, [45] M. Gholami Anjiraki, M.M. Aksen, J. Craig, H. Seyedzadeh, A. Khosronejad, Large 
Appl. Energy 238 (2019) 1434–1443. eddy simulation of a utility-scale vertical-axis marine hydrokinetic turbine under 

[16] M. Mathew, M.S. Hossain, S. Saha, S. Mondal, M.E. Haque, Sizing approaches for so- live-bed conditions, Phys. Fluids 37 (5) (2025).
lar photovoltaic-based microgrids: a comprehensive review, IET Energy Syst. Integr. [46] M.M. Aksen, H. Seyedzadeh, M.G. Anjiraki, J. Craig, K. Flora, C. Santoni, F. 
4 (1) (2022) 1–27. Sotiropoulos, A. Khosronejad, Large eddy simulation of a utility-scale horizontal axis 

[17] M.A. Ali, A.H. Besheer, H.M. Emara, A. Bahgat, Optimal micro-grid battery schedul- turbine with woody debris accumulation under live bed conditions, Renew. Energy 
ing within a comprehensive smart pricing scheme, Sci. Rep. 15 (1) (2025) 20098. 239 (2025) 122110.

[18] C. Wang, X. Li, Optimization scheduling of microgrid comprehensive demand re- [47] M.M. Aksen, K. Flora, H. Seyedzadeh, M.G. Anjiraki, A. Khosronejad, On 
sponse load considering user satisfaction, Sci. Rep. 14 (1) (2024) 16034. the impact of debris accumulation on power production of marine hydroki-

[19] J. Guerrero, B. Sok, A.C. Chapman, G. Verbič, Electrical-distance driven peer-to-peer netic turbines: insights gained via LES, Theor. Appl. Mech. Lett. 14 (6)
energy trading in a low-voltage network, Appl. Energy 287 (2021) 116598. (2024) 100524.

[20] N. Tubteang, P. Wirasanti, Peer-to-peer electrical energy trading considering match- [48] S. Cui, Y.-W. Wang, J.-W. Xiao, Peer-to-peer energy sharing among smart en-
ing distance and available capacity of distribution line, Energies 16 (6) (2023) 2520. ergy buildings by distributed transaction, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 10 (6) (2019) 

[21] N. Talebpour, M. Ilbeigi, G. Korfiatis, M. Powell, Distributed energy systems: a poten- 6491–6501. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2019.2906059
tial solution for equitable electricity access, Urban Resilience Sustain. 2 (3) (2024) [49] J.M. Zepter, A. Lüth, P.C. Del Granado, R. Egging, Prosumer integration in wholesale 
289–306. electricity markets: synergies of peer-to-peer trade and residential storage, Energy 

[22] N. Talebpour, M. Ilbeigi, Citizens’ socioeconomic background and energy accessi- Build. 184 (2019) 163–176.
bility during extreme events in: Construction Research Congress (2024) 31–37. [50] F. Alfaverh, M. Denai, Y. Sun, A dynamic peer-to-peer electricity market model for 

[23] W. Zhou, W. Dang, F. Peng, R. Mahesuti, L. Zhang, K. Sun, A decentralized peer-to- a community microgrid with price-based demand response, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 
peer energy trading strategy considering flexible resource involvement and renew- 14 (5) (2023) 3976–3991. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2023.3246083
able energy uncertainty, Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 152 (2023) 109275. [51] C. Wei, Z. Shen, D. Xiao, L. Wang, X. Bai, H. Chen, An optimal scheduling strategy for 

[24] B. Varghese, D.N. Gaonkar, Strategic power flow-stackelberg dynamics for min- peer-to-peer trading in interconnected microgrids based on RO and nash bargaining, 
imizing transmission losses in peer-to-peer trading, IEEE Access 12 (2024) Appl. Energy 295 (2021) 117024.
168091–168105. [52] M. Khodoomi, H. Sahebi, Robust optimization and pricing of peer-to-peer energy 

[25] L. Herenčić, P. Ilak, I. Rajšl, Peer-to-peer electricity trading in distribution grid: ef- trading considering battery storage, Comput. Indus. Eng. 179 (2023) 109210.
fects of prosumer’s elasticities on voltage levels, in: 2020 6th IEEE International [53] C.L. Gunarathna, R.J. Yang, S. Jayasuriya, K. Wang, Reviewing global peer-to-peer 
Energy Conference (ENERGYCon), 2020, pp. 724–729. https://doi.org/10.1109/ distributed renewable energy trading projects, Energy Res. Social Sci. 89 (2022) 
ENERGYCon48941.2020.9236564 102655.

[26] C. Zhang, T. Yang, Y. Wang, Peer-to-peer energy trading in a microgrid based on [54] B.H. Rao, S.L. Arun, M.P. Selvan, Framework of locality electricity trading system for 
iterative double auction and blockchain, Sustain. Energy Grids Netw. 27 (2021) profitable peer-to-peer power transaction in locality electricity market, IET Smart 
100524. Grid 3 (3) (2020) 318–330.

21 



H. Gharibi et al. Energy & Buildings 348 (2025) 116435 

[55] W. Tushar, T.K. Saha, C. Yuen, D. Smith, H.V. Poor, Peer-to-peer trading in electricity [62] R.-J. Meinke, S. Hongjian, J. Jiang, Optimising demand and bid matching in a peer-
networks: an overview, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 11 (4) (2020) 3185–3200. to-peer energy trading model, in: ICC 2020-2020 IEEE International Conference on 

[56] A. Chiarini, L. Compagnucci, Blockchain, data protection and p2p energy trading: a Communications (ICC), IEEE, 2020, pp. 1–6.
review on legal and economic challenges, Sustainability 14 (23) (2022) 16305. [63] R. Gharibi, R. Khalili, B. Vahidi, A.F. Nematollahi, R. Dashti, M. Marzband, En-

[57] O. Jogunola, A.S. Ajagun, W. Tushar, F.O. Olatunji, C. Yuen, C. Morley, B. Adebisi, hancing energy hub performance: a comprehensive model for efficient integration 
T. Shongwe, Peer-to-peer local energy market: opportunities, barriers, security and of hydrogen energy and renewable sources with advanced uncertainty management 
implementation options, IEEE Access 12 (2024) 37873–37890. strategies, J. Energy Storage 107 (2025) 114948.

[58] D.L. Rodrigues, X. Ye, X. Xia, B. Zhu, Battery energy storage sizing optimisation for [64] NSRDB, 2023, https://globalsolaratlas.info/.
different ownership structures in a peer-to-peer energy sharing community, Appl. [65] M. Nasir, A. Rezaee Jordehi, M. Tostado-Véliz, S.A. Mansouri, E.R. Sanseverino, 
Energy 262 (2020) 114498. M. Marzband, Two-stage stochastic-based scheduling of multi-energy microgrids 

[59] H. Mehrjerdi, Peer-to-peer home energy management incorporating hydrogen stor- with electric and hydrogen vehicles charging stations, considering transactions 
age system and solar generating units, Renew. Energy 156 (2020) 183–192. through pool market and bilateral contracts, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 48 (61) (2023) 

[60] S. Dorahaki, M. Rashidinejad, S.F.F. Ardestani, A. Abdollahi, M.R. Salehizadeh, A 23459–23497.
peer-to-peer energy trading market model based on time-driven prospect theory in [66] N. Gholizadeh, M. Abedi, H. Nafisi, M. Marzband, A. Loni, G.A. Putrus, Fair-optimal 
a smart and sustainable energy community, Sustain. Energy Grids Netw. 28 (2021) bilevel transactive energy management for community of microgrids, IEEE Syst. J. 
100542. 16 (2) (2022) 2125–2135.

[61] A. Razmjoo, L. Gakenia Kaigutha, M.A. Vaziri Rad, M. Marzband, A. Davarpanah, 
M. Denai, A technical analysis investigating energy sustainability utilizing reliable 
renewable energy sources to reduce CO2 emissions in a high potential area, Renew. 
Energy 164 (2021) 46–57.

22