3976 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 14, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER 2023

A Dynamic Peer-to-Peer Electricity Market
Model for a Community Microgrid With

Price-Based Demand Response
Fayiz Alfaverh , Mouloud Denai , and Yichuang Sun , Senior Member, IEEE

Abstract—Peer-to-Peer (P2P) energy sharing enables pro- purchase electricity from the grid and sell their energy surplus
sumers within a community microgrid to directly trade their local back to the grid. However, sell back rates or feed-in-tariffs
energy resources such as solar photovoltaic (PV) panels, small- (FiT) remunerations that prosumers receive when selling elec-
scale wind turbines, electric vehicle battery storage among each
other based on an agreed cost-sharing mechanism. This paper tricity to the utility are generally much lower than consumer
addresses the energy cost minimization problem associated with tariffs for the purchase of electricity from the utility [2].
P2P energy sharing among smart homes which are connected Peer-to-Peer (P2P) energy sharing, where prosumers directly
in a residential community. The contribution of this paper is trade their local energy resources with each other without
threefold. First, an effective Home Energy Management System going through an intermediate retailer, has recently emerged
(HEMS) is proposed for the smart homes equipped with local
generation such as rooftop solar panels, storage and appliances to as a flexible and cost-effective energy management mechanism
achieve the demand response (DR) objective. Second, this paper which is about to transform the traditional centralized energy
proposes a P2P pricing mechanism based on the dynamic supply- market. The P2P electricity model allows prosumers and con-
demand ratio and export-import retail prices ratio. This P2P sumers to initially trade with one another in a local market at
model motivates individual customers to participate in energy a domestic price and then trade with a retailer. The domes-
trading and ensures that not a single household would be worse
off. Finally, the performance of the proposed pricing mecha- tic price is generally bounded between the retail price and
nism, is compared with three popular P2P sharing models in the the export price. As a result, peers can generate revenue from
literature namely the Supply and Demand Ratio (SDR), Mid- P2P energy exchange regardless of whether they are sellers or
Market Rate (MMR) and bill sharing (BS) considering different buyers of electricity.
types of peers equipped with solar panels, electric vehicle, and The main advantage of the P2P energy exchange is that
domestic energy storage system. The proposed P2P framework
has been applied to a community consisting of 100 households the locally generated electricity from renewable sources will
and the simulation results demonstrate fairness and substantial not to be transported which will ultimately reduce trans-
energy cost saving/revenue among peers. The P2P model has also mission losses and the overall operation costs of the power
been assessed under the physical constrains of the distribution system. Besides the monetary benefits it offers to consumers
network. and prosumers, P2P electricity trading contributes substantially

Index Terms—P2P energy sharing, energy management, to increasing the deployment of renewable energy sources.
vehicle-to-grid, pricing mechanism, demand response. Moreover, the adoption of P2P makes the community more

resilient to power outages and improves electricity access to
members of the community.

I. INTRODUCTION Creating a localized P2P energy market may also be benefi-
cial to the power grid. P2P trading platforms enable an optimal

ELECTRICITY grids across the globe are undergoing a
management of decentralized generations through balancing

profound transformation from a rigid, fossil-fuel based
local electricity demand and supply. Furthermore, an effective

generation and distribution to a new decentralized low-carbon
P2P energy trading scheme incentivizes end-users to consume

infrastructure. In this gradual shift towards the adoption of
electricity from the grid at appropriate times of the day which

alternative, cleaner and renewable energy sources and smart
contributes to peak-load reduction.

technology, small-scale consumers have now the control over
A number of P2P energy sharing pilot projects have been

their energy consumption and are becoming what is known as
developed around the world mainly in Europe such as Piclo in

prosumers (i.e., producers and consumers) [1]. Prosumers can
the U.K., Vandebron in The Netherlands, Sonnen Community

Manuscript received 10 August 2021; revised 9 January 2022 and in Germany and Yeloha and Mosaic in the U.S. Some of
16 September 2022; accepted 14 January 2023. Date of publication these projects, such as Peer Energy Cloud and Smart Watts
17 February 2023; date of current version 23 August 2023. Paper no. in Germany, worked on the information and communication
TSG-01228-2021. (Corresponding author: Mouloud Denai.)

The authors are with the School of Physics, Engineering and Computer technologies (ICT) to support the energy sharing. Some other
Science, University of Hertfordshire, AL10 9AB Hatfield, U.K. (e-mail: projects, such as TransActive Grid in the U.S., have developed
fa17abh@herts.ac.uk; m.denai@herts.ac.uk; y.sun@herts.ac.uk). a P2P platform based on blockchain technology that enables

Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2023.3246083. members to trade energy secularly and automatically between

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TSG.2023.3246083 each other [1].
1949-3053 ©c 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.

See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



ALFAVERH et al.: DYNAMIC P2P ELECTRICITY MARKET MODEL FOR A COMMUNITY MICROGRID 3977

Several studies focused on pricing mechanisms for P2P Despite the large body of literature on P2P sharing, a lim-
energy sharing. They can be classified in two categories: ited number of studies have focused on the participation of
double auction model [3], [4], [5], [6], [7] and analytical electric vehicles (EVs) [17]. Indeed, EVs could serve as a tem-
model [8], [9], [10], [11]. Using double auction model (DA), porary energy storage and supply power to home appliances
the peers (sellers and buyers) can interact between each other via Vehicle-to-home (V2H) technology, and/or feed power to
to trade their energy in a step-by-step fashion as follows [12]; the utility grid using Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) technology when
buyer/seller peers submit their bids/offers to an auctioneer, needed. Therefore, P2P energy market may not only depend
these bids/offers are then arranged in a decreasing/increasing on the excess of power from PV generation, but also involves
order. Once bids and offers are ordered, the aggregated supply EVs in energy trading during their charging and discharg-
and demand curves are generated and intersected at an auc- ing operations. To enable the participation of EVs in P2P
tion price. Therefore, the only peers who can engage in the energy markets, an efficient pricing strategy must be adopted
trading process are buyers/sellers with bids greater than/offers to balance the interests of all the players [18].
lower than the auction price. While consumers with bids lower This paper focuses on energy sharing problem inside a res-
than the auction price cannot buy from prosumers with offers idential community. A P2P pricing mechanism is proposed
higher than the auction price, this means that the total surplus for a community consisting of 100 households to incen-
of PV generation after self-consumption will not be com- tivise individual customers to participate in energy trading
pletely traded within the community microgrid as discussed and to ensure that not a single household would be worse off
in [3], [4], [5]. To address this issue, continuous double auc- with considering the physical network constrains. This will
tions (CDAs) which consists of repeating the DA for a certain simultaneously generate revenue for the energy sharing coor-
number of rounds or within a specified time are proposed dinator (ESC) to cover the maintenance and service operations
in [6], [7]. Although CDA has a great scalability and high effi- costs.
ciency for distributed energy transactions, the pricing rule and The major contributions of this study are summarised as
trading strategies of the CDA have some limitations. Due to follows:
different trading prices for a series of P2P trading contracts, the • The proposed P2P energy trading market model considers
CDA does not ensure fairness among peers, in the sense that uncertainties in household demands, PV generation and
buyers/sellers may pay more than/earn less than other peers EVs flexibility using Monte-Carlo simulation (MCS).
when buying/selling the same amount of energy [13]. In addi- • A HEMS has been developed to allow households par-
tion, trading prices decided by the auctioneer exhibit higher ticipate in demand response programs and minimise
variation. Therefore, the CDA model cannot offer a fairer trad- their energy cost, maximise revenue and increase the
ing price that will stimulate the participation of prosumers in self-consumption ratio.
the P2P energy trading, which is the main goal of an ideal • The proposed P2P energy market does not only consider
trading mechanism [14]. trading the excess of PV generation, but also involves

An analytical model refers to pricing the energy generated trading the energy stored in EVs batteries during their
from Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) in a local market charging and discharging operations.
based on certain rules, calculation methods or game theoretic • A dynamic P2P energy pricing mechanism is designed
approaches. For example, in [8], [9], a supply demand ratio based on demand-supply ratio and Real-Time Price (RTP)
(SDR) is proposed as the ratio of the total renewable energy and Feed-in Tariff (FiT) ratio to ensure fairness between
supply to the total net energy demand in a microgrid, where the P2P participants considering of the physical network
P2P energy prices are a function of SDR. In [10], the mid- constraints.
market rate (MMR) mechanism provides the trading price The remaining of the paper is organised as follows:
among prosumers at the average of the selling and buying Section II presents the model of the residential microgrid com-
prices set by the retailer, with some adjustment based on the ponents which includes various types of households with their
difference between the total energy generation and consump- HEMS and the network model in a low-voltage area consider-
tion within the community. The bill sharing (BS) mechanism ing of the physical network constraints. The proposed P2P
distributes the total energy costs and income among prosumers pricing mechanism is described in Section III. Section IV
within a community based on the amount of each prosumer’s presents the results and discussion. Finally, the conclusions
energy production and consumption. However, these pricing of the paper are summarised in Section V.
mechanisms (SDR, MMR and BS) cannot guarantee that every
participant in the P2P energy sharing market will generate

II. MODELLING OF RESIDENTIAL MICROGRID
economic benefits [15]. In addition, none of these pricing

COMPONENTS
mechanisms has considered the impact of dynamic retail elec-
tricity prices on the P2P market as more retailers may adopt A. Household Categories
dynamic prices or implement demand response programs [16]. In this study, a residential network consisting of different
Therefore, pricing mechanisms must be designed with consid- types of dwellings equipped with solar photovoltaics (PV) pan-
ering dynamic retailer prices, so that prosumers can participate els, battery energy storage system (BES) and electric vehicle
in demand response programs by scheduling and controlling (EV) is considered.
their household appliances and energy storage via a Home As shown in Fig. 1, electricity flow refers to the flow
Energy Management System (HEMS). of electric power between buyers and sellers and cash flow

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



3978 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 14, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER 2023

2) Modelling of BES: BES enables the excess of power
generated from PV to be stored and used later in the day
when the solar PV is no longer available. The energy stored
in the BES is described by following equation:

⎡
Ei

BES(t) = Hi
j(BES)⎣ )

Ei ( i
BES(t − 1) 1 − δi i

SD,BES + UBESP i
BES )

,ch(t μBES,ch

( ) ⎤
− 1 − Ui i

BES PBES,dis(t)⎦
μi (4)

BES,dis

Ei
BES(t) and Ei

BES(t − 1) represent the stored energy at time
slot t and (t − 1) respectively, δi

SD is the self-discharging rate,
Pi

BES,ch(t) and Pi
BES,dis(t) denote the battery charging and dis-

charging rates at a given time slot t, respectively, μi
BES,ch

and μi
BES,dis are the charging and discharging efficiencies

respectively. Hi
j(BES) indicates whether a BES is available at

Fig. 1. Different types of households participating in P2P energy sharing. household i as shown in equation (1) and returns 1 if the house-
hold is equipped with BES and 0 otherwise. Ui

BES is 1 when
the battery is charging and 0 when the battery is discharging.

refers to the cost involved, and income generated during the The State o⎧f Charge (SoC) of the battery is defined as:
electricity trade. ⎨

The type of household i in the residential microgrid is SoCi Ei
BES(t)

BES = × 0
Ei 1 0%

⎩ BES,cap (5)
categorized as Hi

j, j ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6}: i

⎡ ⎤ SoCi i
BES,min < SoC < SoC

BES BES,max

1 1 1
⎢ where Ei

⎢1 1 0⎥ BES,cap is the maximum battery capacity, SoCi
BES,min

and SoCi
BES,max are the minimum and maximum SoC of the

Hi
j = ⎢ ⎥

⎢1 0 1⎥
⎢ ⎥[ ]

battery and are set to 20% and 80% respectively to avoid
⎢1 0 0⎥ PV BES EV (1)
⎣ ⎥

0 0 1⎦ overcharging and deep discharging of the battery.
3) Electric Vehicle Modelling: The EV acts as a domestic

0 0 0 battery storage and provides back-up power to supply the home
where, matrix entry 1 means household i is equipped with appliances during short-term outages or during peak demand
the corresponding device and 0 means the household is not when electricity prices are higher. EV owners can participate
equipped with the corresponding device. Note that households in the P2P market by selling energy to other customers. With
Hi

1, Hi
2, Hi

3, Hi
4 and Hi

5 could be prosumer (seller or buyer) in Vehicle-to-Home (V2H) technology, the EV becomes part of
the residential microgrid whereas household Hi

6 is considered the smart home, and its charging-discharging operations are
as a consumer (buyer only) all the time. supervised by the HEMS. The energy stored in the EV battery

during the availability time of the EV at home is given by:
[

B. Modelling of Household Components
Ei

1) Modelling of the Load and Photovoltaic Systems: The EV (t) = Hi Ei ( )
j(EV) EV (t − 1) 1 − δi i i

SD,EV + UEV PEV,ch(t)μ
i
EV,ch

energy consumption of household i at every time slot over the ( ) ]
i

operation time is defined as: − 1 − U i
EV PEV,dis(t)
μi (6)

EV,dis

Ei [ ]
L(t)  Ei

L(1), Ei
L(2), . . . , Ei

L(T) , i ∈ {1, 2, . . . , N} (2) Pi i
EV,ch(t) = EEV,chfPV (t) + Ei

EV,bfG(t) + Ei
EV,bfP2P(t), ∀t ∈ [Ta, Td] (7)

where {1, 2, . . . , T} is the set of all time slots which are Pi
EV,dis(t) = Ei

EV,tH(t) + Ei
EV,stG(t) + Ei

EV,stP2P(t), ∀t ∈ [Ta, Td] (8)
assumed to have equal interval t = 5 min, T denotes Hi

j(EV) returns 1 if the household is equipped with EV and
the number of time slots over the operation period, and N 0 otherwise. To avoid charging and discharging to occur at
represents the number of households in the microgrid. the same time, the availability of the EV for charging and

The local PV energy generation of each household during discharging, denoted Ui
EV , is introduced and takes the value

the time interval [Ts, Te] is defined as: 1 when the EV is charging and 0 when it is discharging.

Ei Equation (7) represents the charging power of the EV battery
PV(t)  Hi [ ]

j(PV). Ei
PV(Ts + 1), Ei

PV(Ts + 2), . . . , Ei
PV(Te) which can come from the PV (Ei

EV,chfPV(t)), from the grid
, 0 < Ts < Td < T (3)

(Ei
EV,bfG(t)) or purchased from the P2P market (Ei

EV,bfP2P(t)).
Ei Equation (8) represents the discharging power of the battery

PV(t) represents the PV generation of household i at each
time step. Hi

j(PV) indicates whether household i is equipped to supply the home appliances (Ei
EV,tH(t)), to be exported

with PV or not as shown in equation (1) and returns 1 if the to the grid (Ei
EV,stG(t)) or to be exported to the P2P mar-

household is equipped with PV and 0 otherwise. ket (Ei
EV,stP2P(t)). The availability time of the EV is limited

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



ALFAVERH et al.: DYNAMIC P2P ELECTRICITY MARKET MODEL FOR A COMMUNITY MICROGRID 3979

Fig. 2. Flowchart of the proposed HEMS.

between the EV’s arrival time (Ta) to the house and the depar- If Ei
net(t) > 0, the deficiency power the customer needs to

ture time (Td). The SoC of the EV battery, with its charging buy is:
and discharging limits is given by: ∣

⎧ Ei ∣
deficiency(t) = ∣∣Ei

net(t) ,∀t ∈ [0, T] (15)
⎨ SoCi

EV = Ei
EV (t) × 0

Ei 1 0%
⎩ EV,cap (9)

i
SoCi

EV,min < SoC < SoCi C. Home Energy Management System
EV EV,max

With HEMS, the user can monitor, control, and optimize the
The energy consumed during each trip is calculated as: amount of energy generated and consumed in real time, based

on the customer’s preferences via a dedicated user interface.
Ei

EV,trip = Dtrip × Ei
D EV,cap (10) This enables users to actively participate in the P2P market.

max
Thus, the HEMS should be designed to accommodate differ-

where Dtrip and Dmax represent the trip distance and the max- ent types of household resources such as local generation from
imum distance the EV can travel when the battery is fully renewable energy sources (RES), BES and EV. The flowchart
charged, respectively, Ei

EV,cap denotes the maximum energy of Fig. 2 describes the proposed HEMS. Generally, PV gen-
capacity of the EV battery. eration, when available, is first used to supply the household

4) Modelling of the Net Energy: Solar PV generation can be appliances. When the PV generation is higher than the house-
used to power the household appliances, charge the home BES hold demand, the surplus of energy will be first stored in the
and the EV battery. The extra power, if any, can be either sold batteries (BES or EV batteries), and the remaining will be sold
to the P2P market and/or the main grid. Note that the home to other peers in the microgrid. If the PV generation is lower
BES can only supply the household load and charge only from than the household demand, the difference will be purchased
the PV when possible. The EV battery, on the other hand, can from the P2P market if the energy price is low or provided
be charged from the PV, from the P2P market or the main grid from the batteries otherwise. However, when there is no PV
and it can supply the household appliances and sell energy to generation, the required power for the household will be pur-
the P2P market or the main grid. The net energy of household chased from the P2P market if the price is low or taken from
i is the difference between the energy supply and demand at the batteries if the price in the P2P market is higher.
each time slot.

Ei
net(t) = Ei

demand(t) − i
Esupply(t), ∀t ∈ [0, T] (11) D. Consideration of Physical Network Constrains

i
Ei

demand(t) = Ei
L(t) + Ui i

BESPBES,ch(t) + Ui

) EV PEV,ch(t), ∀t ∈ [0, T] (12) Although the P2P energy sharing benefits both peers and the
Ei main grid, technical challenges such as voltage stability and

supply(t) = Ei
PV (t) + (

1 − Ui i (
BES P i )

BES ) − P
,dis(t + 1 U i

EV EV,dis(t), ∀t[0, T]
overflow in the physical layer arise with the implementation

(13)
of a P2P market with the absent of control and management

If Ei process in the P2P trading. Therefore, the physical network
net(t) < 0, the surplus power the customer can sell is:

constrains must be considered to avoid the violation of voltage
Ei

surplus(t) = −∣∣ ∣
Ei

net(t)∣,∀t ∈ [0, T] (14) and capacity issues. In this paper, the proposed P2P trading

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



3980 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 14, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER 2023

mechanism is also proposed with taking in the account of the
physical network constrains.

Consider a radial distribution network that consists of a set
N of buses and a set E of distribution lines connecting these
buses. We index the buses in N by i = 0, 1, 2, . . . , n, and
denote a line in E by the pair (i,j) of buses it connects and
the index i denotes the bus that is closer to the feeder. Bus 0
denotes the feeder, which has fixed voltage but flexible power
injection to balance the loads. For each link (i,j) ∈ E, let
zij = rij+ ixij be the impedance on line (i,j), and Si,j =
Pi,j + iQi,j and Ii,j the complex power and current flowing
from bus i to bus j. At each bus i ∈ N, let si = pi + iqi be
the complex load and Vi the complex voltage. As customary,
we assume that the complex voltage V0 on the feeder is given
and fixed. The branch flow model, proposed in [19], models
power flows in a steady state in a radial distribution network:
for each (i,j) ∈ E,

P2
i,j + Q2

i,j = li,j (16)
vi ∑

Pi,j = ri,jli,j + pj + Pj,k (17) Fig. 3. P2P energy sharing structure.

h(j∑,k)∈E one another through the bidirectional energy and information
Qi,j = xi,jli,j + qj + Qj,k (18) flows, and the whole community is linked to the utility grid

h(j,k)∈E via a network connection point. Based on this structure, the

v peers can trade their excess energy among themselves, instead
i − vj = ( ) ( )

2 ri,jPi,j + x 2 2
i,jQi,j − ri,j + xi,j li,j (19)

of directly trading with the utility grid. As shown in Fig. 3,
Subject to: the P2P sharing system is assumed to have two layers: a phys-

ical layer and a virtual layer. The physical layer is responsible
vmin
i ≤ vi ≤ vmax

i , i = 1, . . . , n (20) for the physical connection and transfer of energy between
pmin
i ≤ pi ≤ pmax

i , i = 1, . . . , n (21) prosumers within the community through a local distribution
qmin network. In addition, it is assumed that all houses are equipped
i ≤ qi ≤ qmax

i , i = 1, . . . , n (22)
with smart meters to collect data such as PV generation, energy

where li,j = |Ii,j|2, vi = |Vi|2. It is worth noting that the net consumption, state-of-charge (SOC) of the ESS and EV, and
reactive power for each bus must thus be calculated for each energy transactions with P2P market or with the utility grid.
time step t. For simplicity, it was decided to find an average Moreover, the communication network is used to enable the
power factor for each of the buses and keep it constant for smart meter to exchange the data.
all time steps. From the given network data, it was obtained The virtual layer provides a secure network environment for
that all buses maintained a constant power factor of 0.98. The all the peers to have equal access to the P2P market. In the vir-
reactive power for each house i for each time step t was thus tual layer, it is assumed that each participant is equipped with
calculated with√: √ an Energy management System (EMS), which is responsible

p2 2 for managing the energy flow within the household and energy
qi = i − p2 = pi p ,∀ ∈ import/export on behalf of the consumer/prosumer. As shown

cosθ2 i − 2 i E
0.982 i (23)

in Fig. 3, both the trading process and the communication of
To ensure that the P2P mechanism does not violate the phys- information are done in a centralized fashion via an ESC who

ical constrains (equations (20)–(22)), every time the Energy can communicate with each peer within the community. The
sharing Coordinator (ECS) receives the selling/buying request ESC manages energy transactions, price mechanism, purchase,
from prosumers/consumers, voltage variation and line conges- and sale expenses settlement, and interacts with the utility grid
tion are evaluated. And then all participants receive a signal considering the physical network constrains to avoid the vio-
which informs them if they can still participate in the market lation of voltage and capacity issues. Peers, on the other hand,
without causing problems in the network. For example, one will pay/gain their energy cost/revenue based on the amount of
prosumer could reduce the injected power into the grid at a energy imported/exported using the predefined pricing mech-
certain time due to the high risk of causing voltage problems anism. It is worth noting that this paper focuses only on the
in the network. application of energy trading in the virtual layer of the P2P

energy sharing model.
III. P2P ENERGY SHARING MODEL

A. P2P Energy Sharing Structure B. P2P Energy Sharing Mechanism
For the P2P energy trading structure of the community The P2P energy trading mechanism is designed to motivate

microgrid, it is assumed that all participants are connected to residents to participate in the energy market. The basic
Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



ALFAVERH et al.: DYNAMIC P2P ELECTRICITY MARKET MODEL FOR A COMMUNITY MICROGRID 3981

Fig. 4. Different values of alpha α and among different values of surplus
power ES(t) and deficiency power ED(t).

Fig. 5. P2P market prices under the proposed price mechanism with different
principle of economics states that the goods price increases values of α and β.
when the demand increases and the production decreases, and
vice versa. In this paper, a new P2P pricing mechanism is The energy price of the main grid fluctuates during the day;
proposed to ensure all customers in a community make eco- it is higher during peak demand periods and lower during off-
nomic benefits, in other words they will be better off compared peak periods which affects the internal P2P prices.
to the traditional utility grid market. The proposed pricing Therefore, the relationship between the import and FiT
mechanism can be applied to any P2P energy sharing model. prices can be expressed as:
The proposed mechanism does not consider only the relation-
ship of the surplus and deficiency of power, but also considers β = rex

, rex < rg (27)
rex + rg

the RTP of the power grid and FiT which reflect the demand of
the power system, where the price is high during peak demand where rg is the RTP of the main grid and rex is the FiT.
and lower during off-demand. Then demand response (DR) Therefore, the P2P market price is calculated based on
program is implemented to encourage consumers to manage (α) and (β) parameters as:
their energy consumption, to reduce the stress on the power ⎧
grid and ensure that energy exchange among the peers does not ⎪(⎪⎨ rg− )

rex (2−β)e2α+βe−2α

( 2 ) + r
e2α+e−2α ex, α ≥ 0

violate network constraints. The proposed P2P model assumes rb =
that (i) the internal selling and buying prices are bounded ⎪ rg−rex (1+β)e2α+(1−β)e−2α

⎪ + r , α < 0 (28)
⎩ 2 e2α+e−2α ex

between the FiT and RTP prices and (ii) the buying price is ⎧ g, ) ES(t) = 0

higher than selling price except in the case where the energy ⎪(
r

⎪⎨ rg−rex (1+β)e2α+(1−β)e−2α

deficiency equals the energy surplus, in which case the buying ( 2 ) r
e2α+e−2α + ex, α ≥ 0

rs =
and selling prices are equal. ⎪ rg−rex (2−β)e2α+βe−2α (29)

⎪⎩ 2 e2α+e−2α + rex, α < 0

For each time slot, the total energy surplus exported to the rex, ED(t) = 0
P2P market by n prosumers is defined as: Fig. 5 shows the P2P market prices under the proposed

∑n price mechanism with three different values of RTP as FiT
ES(t) = Ei

surplus(t),∀t ∈ [0, T] (24) is constant throughout the day.
i=1 The main features of this price mechanism are: (i) The P2P

market prices are bounded between the RTP and FiT. (ii) When
The total energy deficiency purchased by m consumers is E

defined as: D(t) = ES(t), the P2P prices are set to the Mid-Rate Ratio
(MMR), which refers to the mean value of the RTP and FiT

∑m prices. (iii) P2P buying price is always higher than P2P sell-
ED(t) = Ei

deficiency(t),∀t ∈ [0, T] (25) ing price. (iv) P2P market prices are higher than MMR when
i=1 ED(t) > ES(t), α > 0. (v) P2P market prices are lower than

Since the P2P prices depend on the relationship between the MMR when ED(t) < ES(t), α < 0. (vi) With increasing RTP,
energy deficiency and energy surplus that need to be traded the P2P market prices increase based on β value, and vice
at the P2P market, this measure is defined by the α-ratio versa.
given by:

C. Cost Function
ES

α = ED −
, α ∈ [−1, 1] (26) The role of the ESC is to supervise the transactions in the

ED + ES P2P market. His main responsibilities are to set the trading
When α = 0, the surplus equals the deficiency (ES(t) = rules and manage the trading activities, as well as supervise the

ED(t)) as shown in Fig. 4, when α ≈ −1, there is no deficiency metering, billing, and information sharing. After receiving a
(ED(t) = 0) or the surplus is much larger than the deficiency bid from a prosumer, the ESC runs the pricing model to obtain
(ES(t)  ED(t)) and when α ≈ 1, there is no surplus exported P2P prices based on the deficiency-surplus ratio, and RTP-FiT
or the surplus is much smaller than the deficiency (ES(t)  prices. At each time slot, the individual energy cost for each
ED(t)). participant is calculated using Algorithm 1 given in Table I.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



3982 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 14, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER 2023

TABLE I TABLE II
PROPOSED COST FUNCTION TYPES OF HOUSEHOLDS

Firstly, the amount of energy purchased from the grid
is defined using line (13). Consequently, calculating the
individual energy cost depends on whether the partic-
ipant is buying or selling energy. Lines (16) and (17)
calculate respectively the cost of the energy purchased
from P2P market and main grid, and then the total indi-
vidual cost is determined using line (18). For users who
are selling energy, the profit is calculated using line (20).

4. ES(t) > ED(t), ED(t) 
= 0: In this case, the total energy
surplus is greater than the total deficiency. Therefore, the
extra energy will be sold to the main grid. The individual
energy cost is calculated with lines (22-31).

5. Firstly, the amount of energy sold to the main grid is
determined using line (23), then the energy cost is cal-
culated using line (28) which is the sum of the cost from
selling energy to consumers (line 26) and the main grid
(line 27). The individual energy cost for users who are
buying energy from the P2P market is calculated with
line (30).

6. ES(t) = ED(t): When the total surplus meets the defi-
ciency, the P2P selling and buying prices are equal. The
energy cost for prosumers and consumers are calculated
using lines (35) and (37) respectively.

IV. SIMULATION RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

A. Simulation Setup
In this paper, the uncertainties in the load demand of the

houses, the PV generation, and the flexibility of EVs are
simulated using the MCS which produces 1000 scenarios of

During the operation, the following possible cases could occur possible probabilities. A suitable distribution function has been
at each time step: assigned to each parameter of the load demand, PV generation

1. ED(t) > 0 and ES(t) = 0: When the ESC receives only and EVs. Then the input data for the MCS is extracted from
the energy deficiency requests from consumers, he will the Probability Density Function (PDF) generated by these
buy energy from the main grid to meet the demand and distribution functions.
the individual energy cost for each consumer i is defined 1) Household Demands: To address the uncertainty of the
as in line (8) of Algorithm 1. household demand, the residential area with 100 households is

2. ES(t) > 0 and ED(t) = 0: In this case, there is no energy firstly classified into six types [H1, H2, H3, H4, H5, H6] based
deficiency request from consumers, thus the amount of on the type of household they own. The number of each
energy surplus will be exported to the main grid under type of these houses is extracted from the weighted uniform
FiT price and the individual cost is calculated using line distribution as shown in Table II.
(11) of Algorithm 1. The daily household load depends on the house’s size and

3. ED(t) > ES(t), ES(t) 
= 0: When the amount of defi- profile class as presented in Ofgem (U.K.’s energy regulator)
ciency is higher than the surplus, then the ESC needs report [20]. According to this report, a typical household loads
to buy energy from the main grid to meet the energy divided into two profiles. Profile 1 is domestic unrestricted,
deficiency. In this case, lines (12-21) are implemented. which most homes fall under (60%). While Profile 2 (40%)

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



ALFAVERH et al.: DYNAMIC P2P ELECTRICITY MARKET MODEL FOR A COMMUNITY MICROGRID 3983

Fig. 6. Distribution of household size by number of bedrooms. Fig. 7. Distribution of EVs categories.

TABLE III
TYPICAL HOUSEHOLD’S ENERGY USAGE IN U.K.

Fig. 8. Probability density of departure and arrival times.
covers Domestic Economy 7, where users have a lower off-
peak rate at night, when they pay less for their electricity
as shown in Table III. The probability density of the house-
hold size is based on the real data extracted from [21] which
presents the number of household size by number of bedrooms
in England/London, 2011. Fig. 6 shows the weights of the uni-
form distribution function of each household size based on the
number of bedrooms.

Generally, peak electricity consumption occurs during
morning hours [7:00 am-12:00 pm] when the household occu-
pants wake up and during the evening [16:00 pm -21:00 pm]
when the occupants start cooking, watching TV and doing
other activities. Off-peak hours usually correspond to the
period from mid-night till the morning.

2) Probability Distribution for Stochastic Parameters of
EVs: The availability of EVs depends on several factors, such Fig. 9. Probability of battery capacity of EVs’ categories.
as the EV owners’ travelling patterns and usage, EVs’ type,
the capacities of their batteries, and the arrival and departure
times. Therefore, it is essential to develop a comprehensive weighted uniform distribution function. Fig. 7 shows the PDF
model to determine the availability of EVs. In this paper, the used to determine the category of each EV.
distribution functions are used to create the PDF of all the b) Departure and arrival times: It is assumed that the
parameters and variables for each EV to be used as an input peak-hour of departure time of EVs is 8:00 am as people start
to the MCS to produce different scenarios. leaving their premises, while the peak-hour of arrival time is

a) EVs classification: In the U.K., individual EVs based 18:00 pm as users return home. To address the uncertainties,
on their size and use are classified into the following four basic Departure and arrival times are assumed to have a Weilbull dis-
categories [22]: tribution with scale and shape parameters as shown Fig. 8 (a)

• L7e: Quadricycle-four wheels, with a maximum unladen and Fig. 8 (b), respectively.
mass of 400 kg or 550 kg for goods carrying vehicles. c) Battery characteristics and daily travelling distance:

• M1: Passenger vehicle, four wheels up to 8 seats in The random values for the rated battery capacity for each
addition to the driver’s seat. type of EV are generated based on the Gamma and Normal

• N1: Goods-carrying vehicle, four wheels, with a maxi- distributions to create the most suitable probability density
mum laden mass of 3500 kg. functions [22]. Fig. 9 shows the PDFs of the battery capacities

• N2: Goods-carrying vehicle, four wheels, with a maxi- for each EV’s category. For example, the Gamma distribution
mum laden mass between 3500 kg and 12,000 kg. with shape set to 10.8 and scale set to 0.8 is used for L7e

The real data presented in [22] regarding the number of the category and the battery capacity is bounded between 5 and
above four types of EVs in the U.K. in 2020 is used to create a 15 kWh.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



3984 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 14, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER 2023

Fig. 10. Probability of EV travelling distance.

Fig. 12. Stochastic PV generation.

3) Probability Distribution for Stochastic Parameters of PV:
As the PV power generation is highly uncertain due to vari-
ations in the solar irradiance level throughout different hours
of the day. Hence, the modelling of PV uncertainty can be

Fig. 11. Probability of energy consumption of each EV category. addressed either directly as a PDF of the PV power yield
or indirectly as a PDF related to the solar irradiance which

TABLE IV is subsequently fed into a PV system model. In this paper,
DETAILS OF THE SIX TEST HOUSES A stochastic model of PV production is built based on the

adopted historical solar irradiance data extracted from [24]
with zero mean and standard deviation of 15%. Fig. 12 shows
one of the random scenarios of power generation of the PV.

B. Evaluation of the Proposed HEMS
1) Impact HEMS on Individual Household Demand: In

this study, it is assumed that all participants in the P2P
energy sharing are equipped with a HEMS in their house-
holds. The key function of the HEMS is to provide energy
management services to minimise the power consumption in
the smart home. This functionality includes monitoring, con-
trol and management of renewable energy generation, energy
storage, and energy consumption. HEMS also receives price

According to the statistical data set published by the signals from the utility grid and the P2P market and performs
Department of Transport in England 2020 [23], the distribu- demand response analysis. To investigate the performance of
tion of daily distance is fitted as a normal distribution with the the proposed HEMS to satisfy the household demand, one
average value set to 39.9 km and the deviation set to 10 km to scenario that has the highest probabilities of MCS is selected
create the PDF of EV travelling distance as shown in Fig. 10. to illustrate the power profiles of the six households’ types.

To specify the initial amount of EV’s SoC, it is essential to In Table IV, the details for this scenario are listed of each
determine the energy consumption per kilometer. To this end, household.
the distributions of EV energy consumption per kilometer for By using the proposed HEMS algorithm of Fig. 2, the
all types of EVs are shown in Fig. 11 [22]. energy consumption profiles of the selected six households

d) Initial SoC and target SoC of EVs: To satisfy the throughout the day are shown in Fig. 13. Household Type 1

charging demand for each EV, the target SoC of each EV is (H1) is equipped with PV, BES and EV as shown in Table IV.

selected randomly using the uniform distribution [65%, 80%]. It can be noted that, during the time interval [12:00 am –

Based on the target SoC, the travelling distance and energy 6:00 am], the HEMS sends a request of energy deficiency to

consumption per kilometer values, the initial SoC for each the ESC as there is no PV generation, the energy demand

EV can then be calculated as: and the electricity price are lower as shown in Fig. 13(a). At

( ) 6:00 am, the price is high, then the BES starts discharging
i to supply the household demand, until there is no deficiency
kWh/km × Di

trip
SoCi

initial = ϕi. SoCi
target − C

(30) energy. During [7:00 am – 9:00 am], the solar PV starts gen-
Ei

EV,cap erating. Therefore, the household load is supplied from the
PV and the surplus is used to charge the BES. Once the BES

Ci
kWh/km is the energy consumption per kilometer. ϕi is an reaches the maximum SoC, the remaining power is exported

energy efficiency coefficient which is used to consider the to the P2P market. This occurs during the time [9:00 am-
energy loss brought by the speed change process, and it varies 13:00 pm]. Once the EV returns home, and there is still PV
uniformly in the range of [0.9,1.0]. generation, the surplus of power is used to charge the EV

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



ALFAVERH et al.: DYNAMIC P2P ELECTRICITY MARKET MODEL FOR A COMMUNITY MICROGRID 3985

Fig. 13. Random scenario of the power profiles for the six household types throughout the day under the proposed HEMS.

battery till the SoC reaches 80%. Then the surplus of power is are lower. While the surplus of energy is exported to the P2P
fed back to the P2P market again. During the time [16:00 pm- market during [16:30 pm-18:00 pm] by discharging the EV
18:00 pm], the household load reaches the peak value, thus the battery. The evening peak demand is covered with the energy
BES is used to supply the household appliances. The EV bat- stored in the EV battery due to the higher electricity price.
tery is discharging to sell energy to the P2P market during Household Type 6 (H6) is considered as consumer all the
[17:00 pm- 18:00 pm], as the SoC of the EV is at its full time; hence his load is supplied by purchasing the required
capacity, and the electricity price is also high. From 18:00 pm power from the P2P market as shown in Fig. 13(f).
to 22:00 pm, the EV is selling energy to the P2P market and To evaluate the overall performance of the proposed HEMS
supplying energy to the household load. within the community, the average amount of deficit/surplus

Household Type 2 (H2) sends energy deficiency request to for each group of households that belongs to same type has
the P2P market during [12:00 am- 6:00 am] and [22:00 pm – been calculated over 1000 scenarios of MCS with and with-
12:00 am] and exports the surplus energy during [10:00 am – out implementing HEMS and presented in Fig. 14. Clearly,
16:00 pm] as shown in Fig. 13(b). Since this household type is the proposed HEMS can effectively manage the energy flow
equipped with PV and BES, the BES charges from the surplus within each type of household and simultaneously enable the
of PV and then is used later to supply the household load EVs to participate in P2P market. For example, for house-
during the evening peak demand. holds of Type 1, the average energy deficit has decreased

For household Type 3 (H3), the energy deficiency request is using HEMS from 4.6 kWh to 3.2 kWh, while the surplus
sent to the P2P market during early morning time [12:00 am- energy exported to the P2P market has increased using HEMS
6:00 am] to supply the household appliances as there is no from 10.9 kWh to 12.1 kWh as shown in Fig. 14 (a) and
PV generation and the electricity price is lower. At 6:00 am, Fig. 14 (b), respectively.
the electricity price becomes higher, hence it is better to use 2) Impacts HEMS on Microgrid: In microgrids, self-
the EV battery to supply the household appliances. Since consumption of energy from renewable sources, such as
this household is not equipped with BES, the surplus energy photovoltaic panels, results in immediate positive impacts such
request is sent to the P2P market during the PV generation as reduction in energy losses and mitigation of congestion
[7:00 am-13:00 pm]. Once the EV returns home at 13:00 pm, problems in the distribution network. The self-consumption
the surplus power is used to charge EV battery. During rate (SCR) (the amount of energy locally generated and con-
[16:00 pm-22:00 am], the household load is powered by dis- sumed with respect to the total local generation) is considered
charging the EV battery. From 16:30 pm to 19:30 pm, the EV as a performance measure to assess a microgrid’s ability
is utilized to sell energy to P2P market as there is enough SoC to consume its own locally generated energy. Consequently,
and the electricity price is high shown in Fig. 13(c). maximizing the self-consumption rate is an implicit goal in

The load curve of household Type 4 (H4) is presented in most microgrid settings. To this end, the self-consumption of
Fig. 13(d), This household is equipped with solar PV only. each type of households is evaluated to validate the proposed
Therefore, the surplus of energy can be sold only to the P2P HEMS.
market. When there is no PV generation, the user buys the As the battery energy storage plays a key role in increas-
required energy from the P2P market. ing the self-consumption rate by storing the excess of energy

As Household Type 5 (H5) owns only an EV, the household generated by PVs to be used later when needed. For this rea-
load is supplied by importing energy from the P2P market son, the impact of different SoCs and capacities of BES and/or
most of the time as shown in Fig. 13(e). The EV battery is EVs on the SCR is analysed for the households of Types 1,
charged only during off-peak periods because energy prices Type 2 and Type 3, which have BES and/or EV as shown in

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



3986 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 14, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER 2023

Fig. 15. Average values of 1000 scenarios of (a) EVs’ capacities and SoCs,
(b) BESs’ capacities and SoCs, (c) household demand, (d) SCR of Type 1,
(e) SCR of Type 2, and (f) SCR of Type 3.

Fig. 16. Surplus and deficiency power throughout a day.

Fig. 14. Average amount of deficit/surplus for each group of households
under 1000 scenarios of MCS.

Fig. 15. Fig. 15 (a) and Fig. 15 (b) show the average initial Fig. 17. Real time price (RTP) and feed-in tariff (FiT).
SoCs and capacities of the EVs’ and BESs’ batteries respec-
tively throughout the 1000 scenarios of the MCS. Fig. 15 (c)
shows the average daily load demand of the households in C. Evaluation of the Proposed P2P Price Mechanism
the community (8.01 kWh). As the households that belong to One scenario with the highest possibilities is selected to
Type 1 have both EV and BES, these households have the evaluate dynamic performance of the proposed P2P price
highest SCR (52.5%) as shown in Fig. 15(d). It is noted that mechanism. To decide on the P2P market prices for each
how the lower battery capacity of the EVs influenced the SCR time slot, the ESC receives the total deficiency and surplus of
in the first 200 iterations. Fig. 15 (e) shows the SCR of the energy in real-time from the 100 users as shown in Fig. 16, and
households belong to Type 2, as this type of households has the dynamic electricity prices from the main power grid (RTP
only BESs with the small average battery capacity (4.2 kWh), and FiT) as shown in Fig. 17. Based on the total surplus and
the SCR is 15.9%, while the households Type 3 has 47.3% deficiency power, and the power grid prices, Equations (26)
of SCR as shown in Fig. 15 (f), since these households have and (27) are used to determine the values of a and β. Fig. 18
only EVs. Therefore, the SCR depends mainly on the capacity shows the variation of these parameters over one day period.
of EV and BES batteries and their SoCs. The batteries with Consequently, using equations (28) and (29), the P2P market
higher capacity and lower SoCs consume more energy when buying and selling prices are decided as shown in Fig. 19.
they are charged. Therefore, the higher capacity of batteries, It is obvious that when α = 1 (means there is no surplus of
the lower are the SoCs, and the higher self-consumption rate is. energy exported to the P2P market), the ESC purchases energy

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



ALFAVERH et al.: DYNAMIC P2P ELECTRICITY MARKET MODEL FOR A COMMUNITY MICROGRID 3987

Fig. 18. Alpha (α) and Beta (β) values.

Fig. 19. Internal P2P prices (buying and selling prices) under the proposed
mechanism.

from the main power grid under the RTP. During [6:00 am-
8:00 am], the energy deficiency is higher than the surplus
of energy, hence the P2P trading prices are higher than the
Mid-Market Rate (MMR) price. However, when the surplus
of energy is higher than energy deficiency during [8:00 am-
16:00 pm], the P2P buying and selling prices are less than the
MMR price. Fig. 20. Evaluation results of three existing P2P energy sharing models

1) Comparison With Other P2P Models: The performance (SDR, MMR and BS) under 1000 scenarios of MCS.

of the proposed pricing mechanism has been compared with
three existing P2P energy sharing mechanisms, namely, the This conflicts with the basic principle of economics states that
Bill Sharing (BS), Mid-Market Rate and Supply-Demand the goods price decreases when the production increases and
Ratio (SDR). A detailed description and definition of these the demand decreases, and vice versa. That is why the cost-
three mechanisms is provided in Appendix B. The three pric- saving rate for Type 5 and Type 6 (consumers) is lower under
ing mechanisms were simulated and evaluated under 1000 sce- the MMR method compared to both proposed mechanism and
narios, and results of the MCS are presented in Fig. 20 that SDR as shown in Fig. 20 (e) and Fig. 20 (f), respectively. As
contains the profits/cost of the six types of households within these households (Type 5 and Type 6) bought a large amount
the community. of energy with higher price compared to the buying price of the

From Fig. 20, it can be observed that the proposed pric- proposed mechanism during [8:00 am- 16:00 pm]. However,
ing mechanism can fairly guarantee the highest profit/cost for the overall performance of MMR mechanism is 29.6%.
all prosumers/consumers within the community compared to For the BS mechanism, although its overall performance
other mechanisms as shown in Fig. 15 (a)-(f). In terms of the was more than the conventional paradigm (trading with main
overall performance, the proposed mechanism preformed the grid) with an overall performance of 21.7% for all participants,
best with 42.1% of improvement in the economy index of all some of the participants under the BS mechanism received
participants in the community. lower income than that under the trading with the grid. The

Although the SDR mechanism has a better overall reason was that in the BS mechanism, the cost of electricity
performance (with 37.3% of the overall performance) for all for a community is shared among the customers based on
participants than both the BS and MMR mechanisms, it does individual customer’s total energy consumption and export,
not address the unfairness issue among participants. The rea- so that the ones with larger contribution (with high surplus
son behind this is that, using SDR mechanism as discussed in energy) were not remunerated fairly because their energy was
Appendix B-3, the P2P selling and buying prices are set to the sold to the P2P market at a price lower than FiT.
FiT price when the total amount of energy surplus exported to 2) Impacts P2P Market on Microgrid: To investigate how
the P2P market is higher than the total amount of energy defi- the proposed HEMS and P2P market can smooth the electricity
ciency (SDR>1). This confirms why the energy profits rate for demand of the community, the same scenario (with higher
Type 1 and Type 3 households (prosumers) is lower compared probabilities) as that selected in Sections IV-B and IV-C is
to MMR mechanism. used.

As for the MMR mechanism, the P2P prices are set to the In this scenario, the amounts of power that need to be
average value of RTP and FiT without considering the amount purchased by the residential area from the main grid under
of energy exported or imported by the participants as dis- different cases are shown in Fig. 21, where CS0 refers to the
cussed in Appendix B-2. When the energy surplus exported to base case of the total demand of all households within the
the P2P market is higher than the energy deficiency, the P2P community, CS1 refers to the total households’ demand after
prices under the MMR method are higher than the P2P buying implementing HEMS and CS2 refers to the total demand of
and selling prices under the proposed mechanism and SDR. all households’ demand when participating in P2P market.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



3988 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 14, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER 2023

Fig. 21. Community demand that needs to be purchased from the main grid
under different scenarios. Fig. 25. Prosumers’ energy surplus throughout a day.

Fig. 26. Bus voltages with and without considering network constraints.
Fig. 22. Energy exported to the main grid under different scenarios.

On the other hand, the amount of energy surplus exported
to the main grid by all households is decreased by 31% as a
result of using the proposed HEMS (CS1) in every household
as shown in Fig. 22. The P2P trading (CS2) can contribute
to a further reduction of the exported energy (up to 43%) by
sharing energy within the community.

Overall, P2P trading enable better energy management by
matching local demand and supply. Along with the higher local
consumption of renewable energy, P2P electricity trading can
help reduce investments related to the generation capacity and
transmission infrastructure needed to meet peak demand.

Fig. 23. 11-bus distribution system diagram.
3) Evaluation of P2P Mechanism With Considering

Physical Network Constrains: For the simulation, the 11-bus
network that proposed in [25] has been analysed and modi-
fied. The network consists of the six types of households with
the same probabilities as discussed in Section II-A. The dis-
tribution of the households within the network is shown in a
Fig. 23. It is assumed that the bus 1 is the slack bus where the
ESC is located, who is responsible for preventing any network
constraint violation. Therefore, the bus voltages do not violate

Fig. 24. Consumers’ energy deficiency throughout a day. the standard, which is ±5% of 1 per unit (p.u) and the maxi-
mum and minimum line power flows are 10 kW and −10 kW,

According to Fig. 21, the whole amount of deficit that needs respectively. The imported power profiles of the consumers
to be purchased from the main grid under the three cases are are shown in Fig. 24, while the exported power profiles of the
the same during the time period [12:00 am-6:30 am]. That is prosumers are shown in Fig. 25 after implementing HEMS.
because there is no surplus power traded in the P2P market. It is noted from Fig. 26 that the voltage in the buses 2, 4, 5
During the period [6:30 am – 7:30 am], the deficit of energy and 10 violate the maximum voltage limit of 1.05 p.u. while
that was purchased from the grid under CS1 and CS2 are the network constraints were not considered. According to
the same. However, this amount of power is lower than that the network constrains in equations 38-40 that applied on the
under CS0. This is because the households that own batteries network, the voltages stay inside the limits of 0.95 p.u. to 1.05
started to use them to supply their appliances due to higher p.u. by decreasing the amount of power injection energy by
electricity prices. Around 7:30 am under CS2, the households associated prosumers in different buses as shown in Fig. 26. It
that have PVs started to export their surplus of energy to the is observed from Fig. 27 that the line power flow constraints
P2P market. It is noted that the whole community can satisfy are also satisfied in the proposed P2P energy trading approach,
its energy demand and there is no need to purchase energy which may protect the power line from being over-congested
from the main grid during [7:30 am-15:30 pm] as the P2P in a given system. It should be noted that the violation of
market covers the whole community demand. In addition, by these constraints may adversely affect the reliability and sta-
motivating EV owners to participate in the P2P market during bility of a distribution system. In that context, the proposed
evening peak demand [16:00 pm-22:00 pm], they sell energy trading approach will enhance the power system performance
by discharging their EVs batteries and generate more revenue. in P2P energy sharing.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



ALFAVERH et al.: DYNAMIC P2P ELECTRICITY MARKET MODEL FOR A COMMUNITY MICROGRID 3989

⎧⎨β tanh (2α)
rs = f (α, β) = ⎩ (1 − β) tanh (2α), α < 0 (32)

rex, ED = 0

Substituting tanh (x) = ex−e−x

ex+e−x , in (31) and (32):
⎧⎪⎨ α−e−2α

(1 − β) e2

Fig. 27. Power flow in different lines with and without considering network
constraints. = e2α+ 2α , α ≥ 0

e−
rb = f (α, β) ⎪⎩β e2α−e−2α

, α < 0 (33)
e2α+e−2α

V. CONCLUSION ⎧ rg, ES = 0
⎪

This paper proposed a P2P energy sharing model for res- ⎨ 2α e−2α
β e −

e2α+ −2α , α ≥ 0
r

idential microgrids with stochastic models of different types s = f (α, β) = e

⎪⎩ (1 − β) e2α−e−2α
, α < 0 (34)

e2α+e−2α

of households equipped with PV distributed generation, EVs, rex, ED = 0
and BESs to address the uncertainties using 1000 scenarios of where α is in the range [−1, 1] as shown in Equation (26), and
the Monte-Carlo simulation. The P2P energy sharing mecha- to convert this range to [0,1], the formula (X old−min

new = X
nism is designed based on the relationships between energy max−min )

is used:
demand and supply, and Feed-in Tariff (FiT) and Real-Time ⎧
Price (RTP). Furthermore, HEMS is also designed to manage ⎪⎪⎨ (2−β)e2α+βe−2α

2(e2α+e−2α , α ≥ 0
)

the energy produced and consumed within a household. The rb = f (α, β) =
proposed model is simulated and evaluated on a local com- ⎪ βe2α+(1−β)e−2α

⎪ , α < 0 (35)
⎩ 2(e2α+e−2α)

munity of 100 households subject to constraints associated ⎧ rg, ES = 0
with household load profile, PV, EVs, BESs and market sig- ⎪⎪
nals including FiT and retail prices. The simulation results ⎨ (2−β)e2α+βe−2α

2(e2α+e−2α , α ≥ 0
)

show that the proposed HEMS can effectively manage the rs = f (α, β) = ⎪ βe2α+(1−β)e−2α (36)
⎪

energy flow within each type of household and simultaneously ⎩ 2(e2α+ α < 0
e−2α ,

)
rex, ED = 0

enable EVs to participate in P2P market. The proposed HEMS
can also increase the self-consumption rate within the com- Finally, to map the P2P prices into [rex, rg], the formula
munity which depends mainly on the batteries capacity and (X × (max − min) + min) is used. The function of P2P prices
their SoCs. The results show that the effective performance can be for⎧mu(lated a)s:
of the proposed P2P pricing mechanism in achieving cost ⎪⎪ 2α

saving/income for consumers/prosumers with considering that ⎨ rg−rex (2−β)e +βe−2α

( 2 ) + r
e2α+e−2α ex, α ≥ 0

r
not a single household would be worse off. This leads to b = ⎪ rg−rex (1+β)e2α+(1−β)e−2α

⎪ α < 0
motivates peers to participate in P2P energy trading. To vali- ⎩ 2 e2α+e−2α + rex,

date the performance of the proposed pricing mechanism, it is ⎧(rg, ) ES = 0
⎪

evaluated by comparing to three popular P2P sharing mecha- ⎪⎨ rg−rex (1+β)e2α+(1−β)e−2α

( 2 ) e2α+ r
e−2α + ex, α ≥ 0

nisms; the supply and demand ratio (SDR), mid-market rate rs = ⎪ rg−rex (2−β)e2α+βe−2α

(MMR) and bill sharing (BS). The simulation results verify the ⎪⎩ 2 e2α+e−2α + rex, α < 0
rex, ED = 0

effectiveness the proposed mechanism in terms the economic
revenue and ensure the fairness among all peers considering APPENDIX B
the physical network constrains.

1) Bill Sharing Mechanism (BS): In this method, the cost
of electricity for a community is shared among customers

APPENDIX A based on individual customer’s total energy consumption and
According to the basic principle of economics, prices export. The buy and sell prices for the P2P mechanism

decrease with higher supply/lower demand and increase with as determined by this method are given by equations (37)
the higher demand/ lower supply. In the P2P energy market, and (38) respectively.
when there is no energy surplus exported from a prosumer ( )
(ES(t) = 0) to the P2P market, the P2P buying price is set EBFG

r D
to the grid price (RTP). In contrast, when there is no energy b = rg (37)

deficiency requests (E ( ED )
D(t) = 0) from the P2P market, the

P2P selling price is set to FiT. When the ESC receives both ESTG
r S

s = rex (38)
energy surplus and deficiency requests (−1 < α < 1), the ES

P2P prices trend tends to follow the function tanh (2α). Thus,
tanh (2α) can be used to model the relationship between P2P EBFG TG

D and ES
S are respectively the total energy import

prices and α/β: and export of the community from/to the grid after P2P trad-
⎧ ing. Therefore, the electricity bill of individual households is
⎨ (1 − β) tanh(2α), α ≥ 0 calculated

rb = f (α, β) = ⎩β tanh (2α), α < 0 (31) (as follows: ) ( )
r Ci = EBFG TG

g, ES = 0 D .r .r P2P
i g − ES

Si ex + ED .r − EP2P
i b S .r

i s (39)

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



3990 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 14, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER 2023

[4] S. Thakur, B. P. Hayes, and J. G. Breslin, “Distributed double auc-
tion for peer to peer energy trade using blockchains,” in Proc. 5th
Int. Symp. Environ. Friendly Energies Appl. (EFEA), Sep. 2018,
pp. 1–8.

[5] C. Zhang, T. Yang, and Y. Wang, “Peer-to-Peer energy trading in a
microgrid based on iterative double auction and blockchain,” Sustain.
Energy Grids Netw., vol. 27, Sep. 2021, Art. no. 100524.

[6] K. Chen, J. Lin, and Y. Song, “Trading strategy optimization for a
prosumer in continuous double auction-based peer-to-peer market: A
prediction-integration model,” Appl. Energy, vol. 242, pp. 1121–1133,
May 2019.

Fig. B.1. Relationship between the P2P prices and SDR. [7] P. Angaphiwatchawal, P. Phisuthsaingam, and S. Chaitusaney, “A k-
factor continuous double auction-based pricing mechanism for the P2P
energy trading in a LV distribution system,” in Proc. 17th Int. Conf.
Elect. Eng./Electron. Comput. Telecommun. Inf. Technol. (ECTI-CON),

EBFG P2P
D and ED denote the energy purchased from the main Jun. 2020, pp. 37–40.

i i
grid and P2P market by individual users respectively. ESTG [8] N. Liu, X. Yu, C. Wang, C. Li, L. Ma, and J. Lei, “Energy-sharing

Si model with price-based demand response for microgrids of peer-to-peer
and EP2P

S are the energy sold to the main grid and P2P market prosumers,” IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 32, no. 5, pp. 3569–3583,
i

respectively. Sep. 2017.
[9] C. Long, J. Wu, Y. Zhou, and N. Jenkins, “Peer-to-peer energy shar-

2) Mid-Market Rate Mechanism (MMR): In this pricing ing through a two-stage aggregated battery control in a community
mechanism, the P2P prices are bounded between the RTP and microgrid,” Appl. Energy, vol. 226, pp. 261–276, Sep. 2018.
FiT. Therefore, the MMR method assumes that the P2P prices [10] C. Long, J. Wu, C. Zhang, L. Thomas, M. Cheng, and N. Jenkins, “Peer-

to-peer energy trading in a community microgrid,” in Proc. IEEE Power
are set to the average value of RTP and FiT when the total Energy Soc. General Meeting, Jul. 2017, pp. 1–5.
energy surplus equals the energy deficiency, thus: [11] W. Tushar, C. Yuen, D. B. Smith, and H. V. Poor, “Price dis-

crimination for energy trading in smart grid: A game theoretic
rg + rex

r approach,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 1790–1801,
b, rs = (40)

2 Jul. 2017.
[12] W. Tushar, T. K. Saha, C. Yuen, D. Smith, and H. V. Poor, “Peer-to-

However, the peers will buy/sell their energy under RTP/FiT peer trading in electricity networks: An overview,” IEEE Trans. Smart
in case the total energy surplus does not meet the energy Grid, vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 3185–3200, Jul. 2020.

[13] K. Kotani, K. Tanaka, and S. Managi, “Which performs better
deficiency in the P2P market. under trader settings, double auction or uniform price auction?” Exp.

3) Supply-Demand Ratio (SDR): In this mechanism, P2P Econ., vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 247–267, 2019.
prices can be adjusted with the change of Supply-Demand [14] S. Xu, Y. Zhao, Y. Li, and Y. Zhou, “An iterative uniform-price auction

mechanism for peer-to-peer energy trading in a community microgrid,”
Ratio (SDR) based on the basic principle of economics, as the Appl. Energy, vol. 298, Sep. 2021, Art. no. 117088.
relation between price and SDR is inverse-proportional. The [15] Y. Zhou, J. Wu, and C. Long, “Evaluation of peer-to-peer energy shar-
relationship of supply and demand in the energy sharing zone ing mechanisms based on a multiagent simulation framework,” Appl.

Energy, vol. 222, pp. 993–1022, Jul. 2018.
can be represented by: [16] B. Zhang, Y. Du, E. G. Lim, L. Jiang, and K. Yan, “Design and

E simulation of Peer-to-Peer energy trading framework with dynamic elec-
S

SDR = (41) tricity price,” in Proc. 29th Aust. Univ. Power Eng. Conf. (AUPEC),
ED Nov. 2019, pp. 1–6.

[17] S. Aznavi, P. Fajri, M. B. Shadmand, and A. Khoshkbar-Sadigh, “Peer-
The P2P buying and selling prices are identified by equa- to-peer operation strategy of PV equipped office buildings and charging

tions (42) and (43) according to SDR values: stations considering electric vehicle energy pricing,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
{ Appl., vol. 56, no. 5, pp. 5848–5857, Sep./Oct. 2020.

rg.rex SDR ≤ 1 [18] F. Alfaverh, M. Denai, and Y. Sun, “Electrical vehicle grid integra-
r − , 0 ≤

r tion for demand response in distribution networks using reinforcement
s = (rg rex).SDR+ ex (42)

learning,” IET Elect. Syst. Transp., vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 348–361,
{ rex, SDR > 1

2021.
r [19] N. Li, “A market mechanism for electric distribution networks,” in Proc.

r g(1 − SDR), 0 ≤ SDR ≤ 0
b = rs.SDR +

(43)
rex SDR > 1 54th IEEE Conf. Decis. Control (CDC), Dec. 2015, pp. 2276–2282.

[20] “Ovoenergy.” 2021. Accessed: Dec. 2, 2021. [Online]. Available:
The relationship between the internal price and SDR is https://www.ovoenergy.com/guides/energy-guides/how-much-electrici

ty-does-a-home-use
shown in Fig. B.1 which shows that rs and rb decline with [21] “Tenure by household size by number of bedrooms.” 2011. [Online].
the increase of SDR in the interval [0, 1], and they are set to Available: https://www.nomisweb.co.uk/census/2011/DC4405EW/view/
r 2013265927?rows=c_sizhuk11&cols=c_bedrooms

ex when SDR is greater than 1.
[22] J. Meng, Y. Mu, H. Jia, J. Wu, X. Yu, and B. Qu, “Dynamic frequency

response from electric vehicles considering travelling behavior in the
REFERENCES great britain power system,” Appl. Energy, vol. 162, pp. 966–979,

Jan. 2016.
[1] C. Zhang, J. Wu, C. Long, and M. Cheng, “Review of existing [23] “GOV.UK,” Dept. Transp., London, U.K., Jul. 30, 2013. Accessed:

peer-to-peer energy trading projects,” Energy Procedia, vol. 105, Aug. 16, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://www.gov.uk/government/
pp. 2563–2568, May 2017. statistical-data-sets/nts01-average-number-of-trips-made-and-distance-tr

[2] E. McKenna, J. Pless, and S. J. Darby, “Solar photovoltaic self- avelled
consumption in the UK residential sector: New estimates from a smart [24] “Power data access viewer.” Accessed: Aug. 19, 2022. [Online].
grid demonstration project,” Energy Policy, vol. 118, pp. 482–491, Available: https://power.larc.nasa.gov/data-access-viewer/
Jul. 2018. [25] W. Zhou, Y. Wang, F. Peng, Y. Liu, H. Sun, and Y. Cong, “Distribution

[3] H. T. Doan, J. Cho, and D. Kim, “Peer-to-peer energy trading in network congestion management considering time sequence of peer-
smart grid through blockchain: A double auction-based game theoretic to-peer energy trading,” Int. J. Elect. Power Energy Syst., vol. 136,
approach,” IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 49206–49218, 2021. Mar. 2022, Art. no. 107646.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



ALFAVERH et al.: DYNAMIC P2P ELECTRICITY MARKET MODEL FOR A COMMUNITY MICROGRID 3991

Fayiz Alfaverh received the B.Sc. degree in elec- Yichuang Sun (Senior Member, IEEE) received
trical power engineering from Yarmouk University, the B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees in communications
Irbid, Jordan, the M.Sc. degree in power electron- and electronics engineering from Dalian Maritime
ics and control engineering from the University University, Dalian, China, in 1982 and 1985, respec-
of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, U.K, where he is cur- tively, and the Ph.D. degree in communications and
rently pursuing the Ph.D. degree. His interests are in electronics engineering from the University of York,
demand response management and control strategies York, U.K., in 1996. He is currently a Professor
for integrated smart electricity networks, and man- of Communications and Electronics, the Head of
agement of smart homes and dynamic scheduling, Communications and Intelligent Systems Research
optimisation, and control of future smart grids. Group, and the Head of Electronic, Communication

and Electrical Engineering Division with the School
of Engineering and Computer Science, University of Hertfordshire, U.K. He
has published over 330 papers and contributed ten chapters in edited books.
He has also published four text and research books: Continuous-Time Active
Filter Design (CRC Press, USA, 1999), Design of High Frequency Integrated

Mouloud Denai graduated in electrical engineering Analogue Filters (IEE Press, U.K., 2002), Wireless Communication Circuits
from the University of Science and Technology of and Systems (IET Press, 2004), and Test and Diagnosis of Analogue, Mixed-
Algiers and the Ecole Nationale Polythechnique of signal and RF Integrated Circuits—the Systems on Chip Approach (IET Press,
Algiers, Algeria. He received the Ph.D. degree in 2008). His research interests are in the areas of wireless and mobile commu-
control engineering from the University of Sheffield, nications, RF and analogue circuits, microelectronic devices and systems, and
U.K. He worked with the University of Science machine learning and deep learning.
and Technology of Oran, Algeria, in 2004, and the
University of Sheffield from 2004 to 2010. From
2010 to 2014, he worked for the University of
Teesside, U.K. He has been with the University
of Hertfordshire, U.K., since 2014. His research

interests in energy include intelligent control design and computational intelli-
gence applications to efficiency optimization in renewable energy systems with
particular focus in the management of smart homes and dynamic scheduling,
optimization and control of future smart grids, condition monitoring, and asset
management in electric power networks; Energy storage systems integration
into the grid; Smart meter data analytics using machine learning techniques for
efficient energy management; electric vehicles integration into the distribution
grid, and V2G/G2V management.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:57:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.