Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Applied Energy
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/apenergy

Collaborative optimization framework for capacity planning of a
prosumer-based peer-to-peer electricity trading community
Richard A. Mahuze , Ali Amadeh , Bo Yuan , K. Max Zhang *
Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA

H I G H L I G H T S

• A novel framework for peer-to-peer (P2P) trading community capacity planning.
• Bi-level optimization with system-wide and adopter-level objectives.
• Demand flexibility harnessed through the local energy market.
• Network topology and constraints considered in the planning process
• Collaboratively planned P2P community outperforms individually planned.

A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T

Keywords: Peer-to-peer (P2P) electricity trading offers significant potential benefits for community microgrids, including
P2P electricity trading reduced costs, enhanced demand flexibility, and increased self-sufficiency. However, optimizing the capacities (i.
Demand flexibility e., on-site renewable generation and battery storage) in a P2P trading environment is complex. This complexity is
Community microgrids due to the dual need to achieve broad system objectives while catering to individual households’ unique energy
Capacity planning

needs and preferences. To tackle this, our study proposes an innovative bi-level optimization framework that
harmonizes these diverse needs through a collaborative approach that accounts for demand flexibility and
network topology. At the heart of our method is a “collaborative optimization” process. This entails a synergistic
planning strategy where system-wide objectives and individual household preferences are jointly considered to
determine the optimal infrastructure setup. The upper level of the framework employs Borg Multiobjective
Evolutionary Algorithm (MOEA) to reconcile various system-wide objectives, such as maximizing renewable
energy use, minimizing costs, and ensuring grid stability. The lower-level optimization uses Mixed Integer
Nonlinear Programming (MINLP) with a dynamic pricing mechanism based on Supply-Demand Ratio (SDR). Our
results show that collaborative optimization significantly outperforms individual household optimization stra-
tegies (where households plan capacity independently before adopting P2P trading). In our case study, we
observed a 24.6 % reduction in bi-monthly peak load averages with collaborative optimization, compared to a
modest 10.2 % reduction under individual planning scenarios. This not only signifies enhanced efficiency but
also translates into significant economic benefits. For instance, the investment payback period for solar photo-
voltaic (PV) panels and battery storage is drastically reduced—from an average of 5.1 years to just 1.8 years. Our
findings highlight the significant economic and grid-stabilizing advantages gained through collaborative plan-
ning of P2P trading.

year, reaching nearly 510 gigawatts (GW), with solar photovoltaic (PV)
making up three-quarters of these additions [1]. This substantial growth

1. Introduction reflects an accelerated effort to meet international targets, such as the
COP28 goal of tripling renewable energy capacity by 2030 [2].

The global energy landscape is rapidly transforming, driven by an However, this shift towards renewable energy sources (RES) like
urgent need to transition towards a more sustainable future. In 2023, the solar and wind power presents significant challenges for integration into
world added 50% more renewable capacity compared to the previous

* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: kz33@cornell.edu (K.M. Zhang).

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2025.125289
Received 12 August 2024; Received in revised form 10 December 2024; Accepted 3 January 2025
Available online 5 February 2025
0306-2619/© 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

Nomenclature Ψmin Minimum battery state-of-charge coefficient
Ψmax Maximum battery state-of-charge coefficient

Sets and indices δth,s PV generation forecasting error under realization s for
h ∈ H Index for houses in the set of all houses house h at time t
t ∈ T Index for time slots in the set of all time slots, representing Dh Vector of hourly baseline demand for house h

total hours PVh Vector of forecasted PV generation for house h
k ∈ {1,2,…,K} Index for the months within the specified period of Dt

h Hourly baseline demand for house h at time t
interest, K months It

s h Grid import (electricity imported from the grid) for house h
∈ S Index of solar PV generation realizations at time t

M k ⊆ T Subset of T representing the set of hourly intervals in the Eth Electricity exported to the grid by house h at time t
kth month NPh Vector of net load of house h

Δt ⊆ T Subset of T representing the set of hourly intervals in the DK
time horizon h , I

K
h ,E

K
h Total demand (baseline), import, and export for house h
over K months, respectively

λtou ⊆ Υ The set of all hourly retail electricity prices Λk Peak demand for month k
λtbuy ∈ λtou The set of hourly retail electricity prices in different ΛK

Time-of-Use periods where avg Average of the aggregated monthly peak demand over K
months

tou ∈ {off peak,mid peak, on peak} CC
β h Total capital cost for house h
∈ B Index for trials or iterations for internal price convergence

Parameters CCO Average capital cost offset across all houses
N CCOh Capital cost offset for house h

= |H | Total number of houses
T = |Δt| Total number of hours in the time horizon NPth Net electricity consumption for house h at time t

TSPt|S| Total number of solar PV generation realization Total surplus power in the system at time t
|B | Total number of trials or iterations in the local energy TBPt Total buying power in the system at time t

market SDRt Supply-Demand Ratio (SDR) at time slot t
λt ξ
buy Hourly retail electricity price h Vector of adjusted power consumption profile for house h

λ ξt
sell Grid export price h Adjusted consumption at time t for house h

γ slth Shiftable load consumption at time t for house h
mc Solar PV module cost per watt

γic Inverter cost per watt flth Fixed load consumption at time t for house h
γkWh Ct
bc BESS capital cost per kWh h Lower-level cost function for house h at time t

γkW Prt
bc BESS capital cost per kW buy Internal buying price at time t in the local P2P market

γ Prt
fc Fixed monthly network charge sell Internal selling price at time t in the local P2P market

α Sensitivity coefficient quantifying the willingness to Dt,n
h Hourly baseline demand for house h at time t and year n

perform load shifting πh Breakeven year
rinfl Inflation rate π*h Adjusted breakeven year
rdr Nominal discount rate th0 Vector of initial time slots of the shiftable load in house h
Lgrowth Load growth percentage per year νh Vector of durations for each identified non-zero shiftable
γO Fixed O&M cost per kW-year for solar panels

PV load sequence in house h
γO Fixed O&M cost per kWh for battery storage

BESS Γh Vector of vectors containing the actual values of shiftable
σ Standard deviation loads for each non-zero shiftable load sequence in house h
ϵ Internal local market price convergence criterion θth Monetary outcome for house h at time t, where positive
μcha,μdis Charging and discharging efficiency of the battery values indicate revenue and negative values indicate
Ec− rateh Capacity rate for the battery of house h expenditure
Variables Ωh Accumulated monetary outcome for house h
xh Nameplate capacity for solar photovoltaic (PV) system for ζh Savings for house h

house h SCK
h Self-consumption for house h over K months

yh Capacity for Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) for GK
h Total on-site generated electricity for house h over K

house h months
Etcha,h Battery charging rate of house h at time t ΦK

h Renewable electricity portion for house h over K months
Etdis,h Battery discharging rate of house h at time t ε Voltage support cost parameter
Emaxcha,h Maximum charging rate for the battery of house h vtsupport,h Voltage support variable for house h at time t
Emaxdis,h Maximum discharging rate for the battery of house h Vref Nominal voltage
MODEtcha Vmin Upper bound of voltage

,h Binary indicator of charging mode for house h at time t
MODEtdis,h Binary indicator of discharging mode for house h at time t Vmax Lower bound of voltage
MODEt ΔVmax Maximum allowable voltage deviation from the nominal

import,h Binary mode indicator for when electricity is being
voltage

imported depending on the net load sign
SOCt

Vt
h Voltage at house h at time t

h State of charge of the battery for house h at time t
|I

SOC1 l| Current through line l
h Initial state of charge of the battery for house h Imaxl Maximum allowable current through line l

SOCfinal
h Final state of charge of the battery for house h φi,t Binary decision variable indicating whether the shiftable

SOCminh Minimum allowable state of charge for the battery of house load sequence i starts at time t or not
h νih The duration of the shiftable load sequence i of house h

SOCmaxh Maximum allowable state of charge for the battery of Γi,τ
house h h The shiftable load value of the i-th sequence at offset τ

2



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

τ Index representing the offset within the duration of a |th0| Total number of starting points for all the shiftable load
shiftable load sequence sequences in house h

χt The shiftable load value at time t

existing power grids. Onemajor challenge is maintaining power stability sizes for solar PV and battery storage, limiting the generalizability of
due to the intermittent nature of RES, which can lead to voltage and findings. Additionally, a significant portion of P2P research has
frequency fluctuations. For instance, solar and wind power generation is concentrated on market design and operationalizing trading mecha-
highly variable and depends on weather conditions, which can cause nisms [16,18], neglecting the critical question of how to size DERs for
sudden drops or surges in power supply, affecting grid stability [3]. these emerging markets optimally. This lack of focus on capacity plan-
Additionally, there is a significant interconnection challenge in the ning represents a significant gap in the P2P trading literature, hindering
United States, with long waiting times for renewable energy projects to the full realization of its potential economic and grid-support benefits.
connect to the grid. As of 2023, the average wait time for project While research specifically targeting capacity planning for P2P
interconnection has been increasing, with many projects experiencing trading is limited, broader studies on optimizing RES offer valuable in-
delays of several years [4]. sights and methodologies that can be leveraged. Researchers generally

Moreover, upgrading the grid to accommodate bidirectional power use a multi-objective approach for capacity planning of RES due to the
flow is another critical challenge. Traditional power grids were designed complex energy community structures and varying stakeholder interests
for one-way power flow from centralized power plants to consumers. [19]. Studies demonstrate that a multi-objective function approach
However, with the rise of distributed generation from RES, there is a yields better payoffs and optimal DER sizing than single-objective
need to enable bidirectional power flow to manage the energy generated frameworks [20]. Capacity planning studies often rely on heuristic al-
by prosumers (producers and consumers). This requires significant in- gorithms. Recent research suggests multi-objective heuristic strategies
vestments in grid modernization, including advanced metering infra- excel at solving non-linear optimization problems, as many objectives
structure, energy storage systems, and smart grid technologies to conflict and necessitate trade-offs [21]. Particle Swarm Optimization
manage and distribute power efficiently [5]. These challenges require (PSO) and Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs) are the most frequent heu-
innovative approaches to ensure a smooth, affordable, and reliable ristic algorithms for microgrid capacity planning [22]. While heuristics
transition to a cleaner, more sustainable energy future. might not guarantee globally optimal solutions for large-scale mixed-

A paradigm shift in energy systems is emerging to address these integer non-linear problems, they often provide quality results where
complex and interconnected challenges, with peer-to-peer (P2P) energy classical optimization could struggle [23]. For instance, Ref. [24] in-
trading gaining increasing attention as a potential solution. P2P elec- troduces a microgrid planning framework to minimize the Levelized
tricity trading allows users of Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) such Cost of Energy (LCOE), risk of power shutoffs, and CO2 emissions, where
as solar PV and Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) to buy or sell both system configuration and operational strategy are in the decision
electricity with each other [6]. This approach aligns with the trend to- space variables. The authors optimize RES capacities within the micro-
wards decentralized power systems and complements ongoing initia- grid using a steady epsilon state evolutionary algorithm. Similarly,
tives for building electrification, which aim to eliminate on-site Ref. [25] employs a custom implementation of the Non-dominated
greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel combustion [7,8]. Sorting Genetic Algorithm-II (NSGA-II) to solve a multiobjective plan-

P2P energy trading offers multiple benefits that address the chal- ning problem. Finally, Ref. [26] uses a multi-objective particle swarm
lenges of RES integration [9]. Pilot projects worldwide have demon- optimization algorithm to minimize system costs and power supply loss
strated significant economic advantages [10]. For example, one study simultaneously. While these studies offer valuable insights into the
highlights a potential reduction in consumer electricity bills by 14 %–16 multi-objective capacity planning of microgrids, they do not account for
% and an increase in supplier monthly income by up to 65 % [11], while P2P electricity trading.
another study reports reductions in energy bills for consumers ranging Research on capacity planning with P2P electricity trading has pri-
from 7 % to 33 % [12]. Experiments in a low-voltage grid-connected marily emphasized system-level objectives, focusing on collective and
microgrid reveal P2P trading’s capacity to enhance the local balance of societal benefits while often overlooking individual adopters’ nuanced
energy generation and consumption [6], and other research underscores interests and incentives, who prioritize their own needs and benefits.
its role in promoting local balance and adherence to transformer ca- This focus stems partly from the common approach of simplifying multi-
pacity limits through increased diversity in generation and load profiles dimensional microgrid planning problems through aggregated capacity
[13]. Further, P2P energy is recognized for its potential as a decentral- frameworks, which treat distributed resources as one entity [27].
ized alternative to net metering [14]. However, this strategy might not address the diverse interests of pro-

While promising, P2P energy trading is still in its early stages and sumers, consumers, aggregators, and system operators across multiple
faces numerous challenges. Ensuring robust cybersecurity measures to levels. Microgrid planning with P2P trading capabilities must also ac-
protect data-enabled P2P trading platforms from cyberattacks is crucial count for operational factors. For instance, Ref. [20] explores economic
[15]. Likewise, establishing fair and transparent pricing mechanisms to planning within a multi-microgrid system involving P2P trading,
ensure fair distribution of benefits remains an ongoing area of research combining the PSO algorithm for capacity planning with a cooperative
and development [10]. On the regulatory front, existing electricity game model for operations. This study aims to optimize the LCOE and
market policies are designed for the conventional power system para- reliability index, where LCOE represents the average cost per unit of
digm, and there is a need to align the objectives of the different parties electricity generated, and the reliability index measures the system’s
involved, such as the Distribution System Operator (DSO) and pro- ability to provide uninterrupted service. Similarly, Ref. [28] employs a
sumers [16]. Social acceptance also poses a challenge due to issues of Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP) approach for solar PV and
public awareness and affordability that limit broader implementation BESS capacity sizing for prosumers, maximizing both total net profit and
[17]. These interlinked challenges underscore the need for a framework social welfare. While using dynamic pricing, this study does not consider
that can demonstrate clear benefits to all stakeholders while maintain- generation profile uncertainties or flexible loads that could amplify the
ing power systems reliability. demand flexibility benefits of P2P trading. Refs. [29,30] tackle un-

The strategic planning of DER capacities in the context of P2P energy certainties with a multiobjective MILP transformed into fuzzy multi-
remains a pivotal yet under-researched aspect. Most research in this area objective programming and solved using a genetic algorithm,
has focused on specific operational case studies with pre-determined optimizing for total profit and environmental cost. Ref. [31] uses NSGA-

3



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

II with a Supply-Demand Ratio (SDR) pricing mechanism but still fo- compared between coordinator-owned and user-owned. Even though
cuses solely on system-wide objectives to boost self-consumption and the coordinator-owned BESS case considers both system- and adopter-
reduce net electricity bills and carbon emissions. Ref. [32] optimizes the level objectives, the paper did not account for solar PV sizing and the
total annual profit and reliability index in a networked P2P microgrid incorporation of demand flexibility and network topology. Table 1
consisting of three individual microgrids. This lack of attention to in- compares current studies in capacity planning in the context of P2P
dividual adopter needs limits the practicality and effectiveness of ca- energy in terms of Demand Flexibility (DF), Network Topology (NT),
pacity planning solutions in real-world P2P trading environments. System-Level (SL), and Adopter-Level objective (AL) as well as com-

Broadly, DER integration approaches fall along two axes: network- parison of adoption scenarios.
focused and customer-focused [13]. Network-aware approaches The contributions of this paper are fourfold. First, we propose a novel
explicitly consider constraints within the power system network, while collaborative optimization framework for planning capacities of PV and
network-oblivious approaches ignore them. Similarly, customer- BESS for households in P2P electricity trading communities while
oriented approaches prioritize individual user interests, while system- explicitly accounting for demand shifting. To the best of the authors’
oriented approaches aim for maximized social welfare, including both knowledge, this simultaneous optimization approach for all community
collective users and the system. Most P2P trading community planning members while taking explicit demand flexibility into account has never
models are network-aware and system-oriented, focusing on high-level been proposed before. Second, this framework incorporates power flow
impacts. However, in P2P trading, individual participant behaviors analysis at the distribution level to ensure that the determined DER
significantly impact the system. Adopter decisions are crucial for the capacities and resulting P2P transactions respect physical network
financial benefit of prosumers and consumers in P2P energy trading and constraints. This analysis validates power flows and triggers re-
reduce grid stress [15]. Conversely, P2P trading can increase both power optimization with voltage constraints if violations are detected,
injections from surplus energy producers and consumer withdrawals ensuring a feasible and grid-friendly solution. Third, the proposed
within the distribution network. This imbalance might result in voltage framework employs the Borg Multiobjective Evolutionary Algorithm
fluctuations and exceedance of line capacity limits if network parame- (MOEA), an adaptive optimization algorithm well-suited for handling
ters are not carefully managed. This highlights a critical need for ca- problems with many objectives, to solve the upper-level optimization
pacity planning approaches that can effectively integrate both network problem. To the best of our knowledge, this study represents the first
constraints and individual adopter objectives, particularly the ability to application of Borg to P2P electricity trading capacity planning. Borg’s
leverage demand flexibility. strength in handlingmany objectives andmultimodal problems has been

Considering adopter-level objectives is crucial for unlocking the extensively demonstrated in benchmark studies, where it outperformed
inherent demand flexibility of P2P electricity trading and providing other well-known algorithms in Ref. [41]. We further demonstrate its
valuable grid services [33]. Buildings, responsible for 75 % of US elec- effectiveness in the context of our P2P planning problem by comparing
tricity consumption, offer significant potential for demand-side man- its performance and computational runtime against NSGA-II, a widely
agement [34]; their flexibility measures [35] could substantially reduce used multi-objective optimization algorithm. Fourth, this paper dem-
the need for investments in fossil-fueled generation. Within P2P mar- onstrates the clear economic benefits of our collaborative capacity
kets, community members with PV-coupled batteries possess the planning approach over the individual, isolated planning approach
greatest flexibility, choosing to sell electricity to others or maximize employed before P2P trading adoption. In fact, no prior studies have
their energy independence. When combined with flexible loads like explicitly demonstrated the clear difference in economic outcomes,
controllable appliances, P2P electricity trading surpasses traditional specifically payback periods, between these two planning paradigms.
systems in terms of flexibility. Individuals can customize traded energy This paves the way for a more comprehensive understanding of the
amounts based on real-time needs and negotiate transaction prices. This financial implications of capacity planning in P2P energy trading com-
provides enhanced market participation control [36] and helps absorb munities, enabling informed decision-making for stakeholders and pol-
uncertainty in local renewable energy generation [37]. However, icymakers alike.
despite the recognized potential of demand flexibility in P2P systems, The structure of this paper is as follows: Section 2 presents the pro-
many existing planning studies fail to fully leverage this capability for posed framework, including the system topology and collaborative
maximizing economic and grid benefits. optimization framework. Section 3 provides a detailed mathematical

Several studies have attempted to bridge the gap between system- formulation of the bi-level optimization problem, encompassing both
level and adopter-level objectives in P2P trading systems planning, the upper level, which focuses on capacity optimization, and the lower
but they often fall short of fully integrating demand flexibility and level, which focuses on market operations. Section 4 introduces the case
optimizing DER capacities. For instance, Ref. [23] demonstrates the study, including the benchmarking approach and relevant parameters.
potential for synergistic benefits, achieving improvements in resilience Section 5 presents results and discussions, analyzing the Pareto front,
(up to 80 %) and battery lifespan (32–37 %) through optimized battery adoption scenarios, transaction behaviors, grid impacts, economic
sizing. However, this study assumes fixed PV capacities and does not
leverage the full potential of demand flexibility, particularly time-
shifting, for further cost savings and grid support. Similarly, Ref. [25] Table 1

Summary of existing studies for P2P energy and optimal sizing.
focuses on maximizing self-sufficiency and minimizing battery storage
capacity using NSGA-II, overlooking the significant role flexible loads Paper Solar BESS DF NT Both SL Adoption scenario

can play in enhancing P2P trading dynamics and overall system effi- PV and AL comparison

ciency. While Ref. [38] incorporates adjustable loads within a stochastic [20] √ √ × × × ×

model for Multi-Energy Microgrids (MEMG), it prioritizes operational [28] √ √ × × × ×
[29] √ × × × × ×

cost reduction and fair benefit distribution without optimizing for RES [30] √ × × × × ×
capacities or considering broader grid impacts. Likewise, the study by [31] × √ × × × ×

Ref. [39] optimizes PV and battery sizing for P2P energy sharing for [32] √ √ × × × ×

residential households, focusing on minimizing the cost of electricity [23] × √ × √ √ ×

(adopter-level objective). However, it neglects crucial aspects such as [25] × √ × √ × ×
[38] × √ √ × √ ×

network constraints, topology, and flexible loads, limiting its applica- [39] × √ × × × ×

bility to real-world grid operations and demand-side management [40] × √ × × √ ×

strategies. Meanwhile, Ref. [40] performs optimal sizing of BESS ca- This √ √ √ √ √ √
pacities for a P2P energy-sharing community, where BESS ownership is paper

4



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

impacts, and sensitivity of market parameters. The paper concludes with wide objectives such as minimizing aggregated peak loads, reducing
Section 6. total emissions, or maximizing total electricity bill savings. This level

aligns with broader sustainability goals and energy regulations. In
2. Proposed framework contrast, the lower level focuses on individual prosumer (producer-

consumer) objectives, such as minimizing day-to-day operational costs
We will first introduce the topology of the P2P electricity trading and the inconvenience of shifting flexible loads. Importantly, the lower

community considered in this study. Next, we will introduce the pro- level also governs the community’s operational aspects, including
posed bi-level framework and outline its key steps, encompassing both energy-sharing pricing and trading mechanisms. This framework pro-
system- and adopter-level optimization modeling. duces key outputs, including each participating prosumer’s optimal

solar PV panel and battery storage capacities and relevant performance
2.1. System topology metrics. It is important to note that the baseline load profiles are his-

torical consumption data (including fixed and flexible loads) of the
Fig. 1 shows the system topology we examine in this study. We focus prospective prosumers before adopting RES and BESS.

on the grid’s Low-Voltage Distribution Level (LVDN), which typically The strategic interactions between levels operate within a collabo-
employs a radial structure in residential areas [42]. The topology is rative framework, where the planner at the upper level and prosumers at
based on Ref. [43] and includes four key components: (1) the utility grid, the lower level influence each other’s decisions through an iterative
which supplies traditional electricity; (2) a coordinator, facilitating feedback loop. The planner suggests PV and BESS capacities, and in
communication between prosumers; (3) prospective prosumers, who response, prosumers, along with a virtual coordinator at the lower level,
want to produce, store, and utilize renewable energy; and (4) a independently optimize their daily operations and local market activ-
centralized market structure designed to maximize social welfare [44]. ities. At the lower level, the virtual coordinator provides incentive sig-
To model a best-case decarbonization scenario, this study assumes all nals rather than directly controlling flexible loads. The results of
community members adopt the prosumer role. Each prosumer will have prosumers’ market participation, measured by metrics like cost savings,
a BESS alongside their RES and flexible loads with adjustable operation are then communicated back to the planner, informing the next round of
schedules. The system is assumed to support two-way information ex- capacity adjustments in a continuous cycle of refinement and
change and P2P financial transactions between prosumers. improvement.

Specifically, as shown in Fig. 3, the bi-level optimization process
begins at the upper level, where it first generates potential capacity

2.2. Collaborative optimization framework configurations for PV systems and batteries across all households. Next,
these configurations are passed down to the lower level for operational

This framework utilizes a bi-level optimization approach, as depicted simulation and optimization.
at a high level in Fig. 2. The term collaborative optimization refers to a At the lower level, the process goes through several sequential steps.
method for solving optimization problems that involve multiple stake- First, each household independently optimizes its daily operations,
holders with different objectives [45]. The upper level optimizes system-

Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of the topology and system setup, showing four key components: (a) utility grid, (b) coordinator (intermediary and transaction manager),
(c) prosumers, and (d) a centralized market structure. Each prosumer is assumed to adopt solar photovoltaic (PV) and Battery Energy Storage System (BESS).

5



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

Fig. 2. Collaborative optimization framework for P2P community capacity planning. The framework utilizes bi-level optimization, taking baseline load profiles,
Renewable Energy Source (RES) generation profiles, and utility grid retail rates as inputs. The output consists of optimal solar photovoltaic (PV) and battery storage
capacities of community members and metrics of interest.

including battery scheduling and load shifting, to minimize electricity better solutions. What makes Borg particularly effective is its archiving
costs while considering the inconvenience of load shifting. Second, system that efficiently maintains a diverse set of high-quality solutions
households participate in a local energy market where they can trade while avoiding redundancy. This approach ensures that the algorithm
excess energy with neighbors, with prices determined through a supply- explores a wide range of possible solutions while consistently moving
demand ratio mechanism. Third, the technical feasibility of these energy towards better outcomes. Unlike more traditional algorithms such as
exchanges is validated through network analysis, checking for issues like NSGA-II, Borg incorporates multiple search strategies simultaneously
voltage constraints or line capacity limits. If any technical violations are and automatically selects the most effective ones during optimization,
detected, a re-optimization occurs with additional voltage awareness rather than relying on a single fixed approach.
considerations, adjusting battery operations and market positions The lower-level optimization focuses on P2P energy market opera-
accordingly. This P2P market operation iterates throughout the simu- tions, which include pricing and trading mechanisms. Different pricing
lation period. Finally, all energy transactions are accounted for, and the strategies have been proposed to establish the internal P2P trading price.
operational performance metrics are calculated. These strategies encompass market-based methods [49], distributed

The process concludes with a feedback loop from the lower to the optimization-based methods [50], auction-based methods [51], game-
upper level. The operational results, including financial outcomes and theoretic methods [52], and blockchain-based methods [53].
system performance metrics, are aggregated and returned to the upper The pricing mechanism shapes trading by influencing bidding stra-
level. The upper level uses these insights to refine the capacity decisions tegies, matching processes, and benefit allocations, with impacts vary-
in subsequent iterations, learning from the operational impacts of pre- ing by market context and participant behavior [54]. P2P energy trading
vious suggestions. mechanisms can be broadly categorized into theory-based and distrib-

We use the Borg MOEA [41] as the solver of the upper-level opti- uted methods [33]. Recent advancements have utilized multi-agent
mization problem due to its superior performance in comparison with reinforcement learning for model-free P2P energy trading, addressing
six well-known multiobjective algorithms for solving benchmark suites inherent deep uncertainties in local energy market operations [51].
of test problems with 2–8 objectives [46]. Borg MOEA is a self-adaptive For this study, we use the SDR method from Ref. [55] to demonstrate
multiobjective evolutionary algorithm capable of solving complex, the framework. This method has a proven track record in multiple
many-objective problems, and its application in energy planning has studies [36,49,56]. The SDR method offers a synchronous way to
been demonstrated in [47,48]. determine energy pricing and adapt to supply and demand changes [57].

The algorithm features an intelligent self-adjustment mechanism
that fine-tunes its search process when it detects stagnation in finding

6



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

Fig. 3. Bi-level optimization flowchart. The upper level determines optimal solar PV and battery capacities in an iterative loop. The lower level then simulates P2P
trading using these capacities, minimizing costs for each prosumer and coordinating transactions. The lower-level optimization returns metrics of interest to the
upper level for evaluation and further solution search.

3. Mathematical formulation of the Bilevel framework (respectively).
Grid import is defined as the portion of the net load that is drawn

3.1. Upper-level optimization problem from the utility grid (when the net load is positive). The grid import is
(

expressed as It NPt
)

h = max h, 0 , where Ith represents the grid import for
The upper level of the framework is concerned with optimizing house h at time t. To assess the peak demand from the grid’s perspective,

multiple objectives that may contradict each other to satisfy the needs of we sum the hourly grid import across all houses. Let M k be the set of
different parties involved in a P2P electricity trading community. hourly intervals for the kth month and M k ⊆ T . For each month k, the
Recognizing the limitations of purely cost-driven optimization, the monthly peak demand is calculated by finding the maximum hourly grid
upper level of our framework addresses the multi-faceted nature of real- import over the set of hourly intervals within that month:
world energy transitions. We incorporate system-wide objectives that {( )}
may be nonlinear, reflecting the complex decision-making processes ∑

that stakeholders undertake [58]. Λk = max It (1)
t∈M k h∈H h

To demonstrate this, this study aims to account for the utility’s in-
terest in reducing high peak loads that can happen when there’s unco- where Λk is the peak demand for the month k, and the hourly electricity
ordinated DER integration into the grid [59]. In addition, an objective demand is summed across all houses in H . The average aggregated
concerning the capital cost of each prosumer is also considered, where monthly peak demand over K months is then calculated as follows:
the capital cost is offset by the amount of savings accrued over some

1∑time period, thanks to adopting P2P electricity trading. Furthermore, we f1∶ = ΛK K
avg = Λ (2

K k k )
=1

incorporate maximization of the percentage of the site’s electric load
served by renewable electricity to promote decarbonization and broader This formulation connects with the upper-level optimization prob-
sustainability goals. Hence, the three objectives at the upper level are to lem, where the objective is to minimize the aggregated peak demand by
minimize the aggregated peak loads, minimize the capital cost offset, optimizing the PV and battery capacities for each household (i.e., opti-
and maximize the REP. mizing xh and yh).

3.1.1. Peak load 3.1.2. Capital cost offset
Let NPth represent the net load for house h at time t, where h ∈ H and The capital cost offset accounts for the capital costs of DER in-

t ∈ T . The net load accounts for the demand after considering the stallations and the total bill savings achieved through their operation
involvement of PV generation, battery storage, and P2P trading. The over the period T . The total bill savings ζh for each house h are calcu-
decision variables in the upper-level optimization, xh and yh, represent lated as:
the PV capacity size (in kilowatts-peak, kWp) and battery capacity size ∑

ζh = Dt
(in kilowatt-hours, kWh) for each house h. These variables influence the ⋅λt +Ω ( )

t∈T h buy h 3
net load NPth, as discussed in later sections, since both the PV generation
and the charging/discharging of the battery are functions of xh and yh,

where Dt
h Baseline electricity demand for the house h at time t (without

7



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

DERs) and λtbuy is the hourly utility retail electricity price. The accu- generated electricity, baseline demand, self-consumption and export for
mulated monetary outcomeΩh from DER operations and P2P trading for house h over K months, respectively. As noted in Section 3.1.1, the
each house h over the period T is defined as: upper-level decision variables xh and yh directly impact the net load

∑ profile and grid imports and exports.
Ωh = θt (4)

t∈T h
3.1.4. Discounted payback period

In Eq. (4), θth is the monetary outcome for the house h at time t, where In addition, discounted payback period is considered in this study to
θth > 0 means revenue at time t (e.g., selling excess PV generation) and measure the economic performance of each solution. The formulation
θth < 0 means expenditure at time t (e.g., purchasing electricity either starts with the estimation of future electricity retail rates, which is
from the grid or peers). This formulation helps calculate the bill savings characterized as follows:
by adding the net monetary outcome to the baseline cost, effectively
capturing the financial benefits of DERs and P2P trading. The approach λt,n

( ) ( )
buy,tou = λtbuy,tou × 1+ r n

infl + γfc× 1+ r n
infl (16)

essentially computes savings as the difference between the business-as-
usual (BAU) cost and the net cost after intervention while also ac- where λt,nbuy,tou represent the hourly retail price for time-of-use periods
counting for any new revenue streams. tou ∈ {off − peak,mid − peak,on − peak} and that λtou ⊆ Υ. The infla-

Then, given the nameplate capacity xh and yh of solar PV and BESS tion rate is annotated as rinfl, and γfc represents a fixed monthly network
capacity for house h, respectively, the capital cost for each house can be charge. Then the annual cost incurred by house h at year n before
calculated as follows: adopting any RES is defined as:
γ ∑
pv,h = (γmc + γic)⋅xh (5) γn Dt,n ( )n

h,BAU = × 1+
t h L × λt,ngrowth buy,tou (17)

(
γbess,h = γbckWh⋅yh + γbcKw⋅ Ec− rate

)
h ⋅yh (6) where Dt,n

h is the house’s baseline consumption at year n, adjusted by the

CC annual load growth Lgrowth. Subsequently, drawing on savings formula-
h = γpv,h + γbess,h (7)

tion in Eq. (4) with inflation rate and operations and maintenance
where γmc is the cost per watt of the solar modules, γic is the cost per watt

(O&M) costs accounted, as well as the upfront costs from Eq. (7), the
of the inverter, γ discounted payback period is characterized as:

bckWh is the capital cost per kilowatt-hour of the BESS,
γbcKw is the capital cost per kilowatt of the BESS, and Ec− rateh is the ca- { }

∑n ζ
pacity rate or C-rate of house h’s battery. Hence, given Eqs. (4) and (7), πh = arg min n h,

≥ 0 k
| k ≥ CCh (18)

k=0(1+ r
the capital cost offset CCOh is calculated as the difference between the

dr)

capital cost CCh and the savings ζh, which is given by: ⎛ ⎞
∑

CC π− 1 ζ
− h,k

CCOh = CCh − ζh (8) π* ⎜ h k=0(1+rdr)k ⎟
h = πh +⎝ ζ ⎠ (19)

h,π
(1+r

The average capital cost offset CCO across all houses is calculated by dr)
πh

summing the individual CCOh for each house and dividing by the total
number of houses as follows: where πh is the breakeven year, π*h is the adjusted breakeven year after

incorporating the fractional year, and rdr corresponds to the nominal
1 ∑

f2∶ = CCO = CCOh (9) discount rate.
|H | h∈H

3.1.5. Upper-level problem formulation
3.1.3. Renewable electricity portion (REP) Drawing on the objectives defined in Eqs. (2), (9), and (15), the

The Renewable Electricity Portion (REP) is a metric that measures multiobjective optimization problem is thus defined as:
the degree to which a site’s electricity needs are met by renewable ( )
sources. It considers both electricity generated and used directly on-site Minimize F(x1, x2,…, xN, y1, y2,…, yN) = f1, f2, − f3 (20)
and any surplus renewable energy exported to the grid, assuming Subject to:
compensation for that exported energy. REP extends the renewable
electricity percentage constraint from the National Renewable Energy xh ∈ {4,7,9, 11} kWp ∀h ∈ H (21)
Laboratory’s (NREL) REopt optimization model [60]. By accounting for
both on-site consumption and compensated exports, REP assesses a site’s yh ∈ [3,15] kWh ∀h ∈ H (22)
reliance on renewable energy sources. This is expressed as: This formulation presents a multiobjective optimization problem

∑K ∑
Dt where the goal is to find the vector of decisions (x1, x2,…, xN, y1, y2,…DK

h = (10)
k=1 t∈M h

k , yN) that minimizes the objectives simultaneously within the given
∑ constraints. The decision variable is a vector of decisions

IK
K ∑

t
h = I (11) (x

k 1, x2,…, xN, y1, y2,…, yN), where x1, x2,…, xN represent the solar PV
=1 t∈M h

k capacities for each of the N houses and y1, y2,…, yN represent the BESS
∑ ∑

EK
K

h = Et (12 capacities for each of the N houses. The decisions are constrained by
k=1 t∈M h )

k typical residential solar PV and co-located BESS capacities [61]. While
explicit constraints are minimal at the upper level, it’s important to note

SCK
h = DK

h − IKh (13) that the objectives themselves act as soft constraints that guide the
design towards desirable characteristics while maintaining flexibility.

GK
h = SCK

h +EKh (14) For example, minimizing average peak demand inherently discourages
( ) solutions that would violate typical network capacity limits. This
GK

f3∶ = ΦK approach facilitates the discovery of balanced solutions that might be
h = h 0 ( 5

DK × 1 0 1 )
h eliminated by strict constraints while ensuring operational feasibility is

managed at the lower level. Our bi-level optimization approach delib-
whereΦK

h is the REP percentage, andGK
h , D

K
h , SC

K
h , and EKh are total on-site erately shifts the majority of operational constraints to the lower level.

8



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

This design ensures that all critical technical and operational constraints decision variables in the lower-level optimization.
are still rigorously enforced but at a level where they can be more pre- The vector of original or baseline hourly demand and forecasted PV
cisely applied to each household’s specific conditions. generation profile for house h at time t are denoted by Dt

h and PVt
h,

respectively. Then, the net load at time t, NPth, is given as:
3.2. Lower-level optimization problem [ ]

Dh ≡ D1
h ,D

2
h ,…,DT

h ∀h ∈ H (26)

3.2.1. Supply-demand ratio (SDR) pricing mechanism [ ]
PVh ≡ PV1

h , PV
2
h ,…,PVT

h ∀h ∈ H (27)
In an SDR-based approach, prosumers directly influence internal P2P

market prices. They achieve this by adjusting their flexible loads and NPth = Dt
h − PVt

h + Etcha,h − Etdis,h (28)
battery storage usage. In this study, we treat the adjustment of flexible
loads as a shifting of operational times throughout the time horizon. where Etcha,h and Etdis,h are the charging and discharging rate of pro-
Adjusted power consumption profile of prosumer h is defined as: sumer’s h battery at time t, respectively. It should be noted that after

{ }
ξh ≡ ξ1h , ξ2h ,…, ξTh (23) load adjustment, the net load calculation will account for ξh instead of

Dh. To account for forecasting error of PV generation, we draw δ from
ξt
( (

h slt
)

h = slth + flth (24) N 0, σ2
)
over realizations S. Hence, the net load vector with uncertainty

is defined as follows:
where ξth is the adjusted consumption at time t, slth is the shiftable load 1 ∑S ( ( )
consumption and flth is the fixed load consumption. Here, t represents NPh ≡ D − V • δs

)
c

|S h P h 1+
| h + E ha,h − Edis,h (29)

hourly time slots in time horizon Δt ⊆ T andT = |Δt| represents the s

total number of hours in the time horizon. In Eq. (24), the adjusted The forecasted PV generation profile is determined by the upper-
consumption consists of shiftable and fixed load, which gives the vector level decision variable xh. These profiles are simulated based on spe-
of the shiftable load during the time horizon slh (as). cific weather data. Thus, the upper-level PV capacity decisions directly

{
slh sl1h , sl

2 }
≡ h ,…, slTh (25) affect the lower-level net load calculations. The SDR of energy in the

local market is then defined as:
However, to enable load shifting, we need to extract specific pa- ∑

rameters that characterize the shiftable loads within the time horizonΔt. TSPt = − NPt NPt < 0 (30)
h∈H h h

Algorithm 1 presents the procedure to identify the parameters of the ∑
shiftable load, which are the start time, duration, and power consump- TBPt = NPt NPt ( 1

h∈H h h ≥ 0 3 )
tion profile.
Algorithm 1. Identify Parameters of Shiftable Loads.

In Algorithm 1, th0 is a vector of the initial time slots (tih0) where a
non-zero shiftable load sequence begins. For each sequence i starting at a TSPt
non-zero value, tih0 marks the start time slot. νh is a vector of durations

SDRt =
TBPt

(32)

for each identified non-zero sequence. Each duration νih corresponds to where TSPt and TBPt are total supply power and total buying power at
the length of the ith non-zero sequence, indicating how many consecu- time t, respectively. Since PV generation and users’ net load fluctuate,
tive time slots contain non-zero shiftable loads. Γh is a vector of vectors the SDR varies throughout the day, influencing the prices at which
containing the actual values of shiftable loads for each non-zero prosumers buy and sell energy. The internal buying and selling prices
sequence. Each sub-vector Γi

h contains the sequence of shiftable load are defined as the following:
values corresponding to the ith non-zero sequence identified in the time { }
series. These parameters will then be utilized to build the load-shifting Pr ≡ Pr1buy,Pr

2
buy,…,PrTbuy;Pr

1
sell,Pr

2
sell,…,PrTsell (33)

9



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289
⃒ ⃒

Prt t i ( )
buy = f(SDR ) φ ,ti +φi,tj ≤ 1 if ⃒ti − tj⃒ < max νi, νj ∀i, j ∈ {1,2,…, |th0|}, i ∕= j

= Prt (39)
sell⋅SDR

t + λtbuy⋅(1 − SDRt)⋅1{0≤SDRt≤1} + λsell⋅1{SDRt>1} (34)

where φi,t is the binary decision variable indicating whether the shiftable
λ t

Prt sell⋅λbuy load sequence i starts at time t or not, T is the total number of time slots
sell = f(SDRt) = ( ) ⋅1 0≤SDRt≤1

λt λ { } + λsell⋅1{SDRt>1}
buy − λ t

sell ⋅SDR + sell in the planning horizon,νih is the duration of the shiftable load sequence
(35) i. The variable Γi,τ

h is the shiftable load value of the i-th sequence at the
offset τ and χt is the shiftable load value at time t. The shiftable load

where Prtbuy and Prtsell are the buying and selling prices within the local sequences are indexed by i, running from 1 to the total number of se-
P2P market at time t, respectively. In addition, λsell and λtbuy are the grid quences |th0|. The constraints ensure each load sequence i is shifted once
export and retail prices, respectively. within the planning horizon, and the energy consumption at each time

In practical terms, consider a microgrid comprising several house- slot t respects the demand of the shiftable load sequence if it is scheduled
holds that both generate and consume energy. During midday, when to start at that time.
solar generation peaks, most prosumers generate more energy than they The intuition behind the load shifting and operation duration pres-
consume, causing the total supply power TSPt to exceed the total buying ervation constraints (37) and (38) is to ensure that each load sequence is
power TBPt. In this scenario, the SDRt will be high (close to or greater scheduled to begin at exactly one time slot within the planning horizon
than 1), triggering a lower internal selling price Prt and that the consumption at any given time χt is sufficient to meet the

sell, as indicated by Eq.
(35). This aligns with the inverse-proportional relationship between demand of any shiftable load starting at that time. Constraint (39) is a
price and SDR, where an excess of supply leads to reduced selling prices non-overlapping constraint ensuring that for any pair of shiftable load
to maintain economic balance within the system. sequences, i and j, if the start times ti and tj are within the maximum

Conversely, in the evening, when PV generation drops and energy duration of the two loads, then they cannot both be scheduled to start —
demand rises, the total buying power TBPt surpasses the total supply preventing simultaneous operation that would exceed capacity or
power TSPt, leading to a low SDR operational limits.

t. In this case, Eq. (34) dictates that the
internal buying price Prt In addition, battery operational constraints are also included:

buy will rise, reflecting increased demand and
lower supply. This adjustment is to ensure that prosumers are incen- − Etcha,h ≤ Eth ≤ Etdis,h (40)
tivized to reduce consumption or shift demand during periods of low
generation, stabilizing the grid and promoting efficient energy use MODEtb,h ∈ {0,1}∀b ∈ {cha, dis} (41)
within the microgrid. Meanwhile, the internal price bounds are deter-
mined by the utility’s retail price λtbuy and feed-in tariff λsell, ensuring MODEtcha,h +MODEtdis,h ≤ 1 (42)
competitive pricing for prosumers and encouraging local energy trading.

The lower-level optimization problem is then defined as: 0 ≤ Et ax
b,h ≤ Emb,h ⋅MODEtb,h∀b ∈ {cha, dis} (43)

1∑S ∑T ( ( ) ( ) ( )
min C t )2

h = Prt
sl port,h + α⋅ ξth − Dh (36)
h ,Eb,h ,SOCh ,MODEtb DEt S| s=1 t=1 buy • NP

t
h •MODEtimport,h − Prtsell − NPth • 1 − MODEtim

,h ,MO import |
,h

where index b ∈ {cha, dis}, MODEtimport ∈ {0,1} is a binary mode indi-
,h SOCmin

h ≤ SOCt ax
h ≤ SOCm

h (44)
cator for when electricity is being imported depending on the net load
sign, MODEtb is a binary mode indicator for battery operations, s ∈ S is

,h SOC1 start
h = SOC (45)

the index for generation realization, and α is a sensitivity coefficient that
penalizes deviation of the adjusted consumption from the original con- SOCfinal rget

h ≥ SOCta (46)
sumption. The cost function (Eq. (36)) reflects not only the individual
monetary outcome from the local P2P market but also the inconvenient 1
cost of shifting flexible loads. The optimization is subjected to several SOCt

h = SOCt− 1 t− 1
h + μcha⋅Echa,h − μ ⋅Et− 1dis,h∀t = 2,…,T (47)

dis
constraints, including load-shifting parameters obtained from Algorithm
1, which are characterized as follows: SOCfinal

h = SOCT
h + μ 1

cha⋅ETcha,h −
∑ μ ⋅ETdis,h (48)

T− νi dis
h+1φi,t = 1 ∀i (37)

t=0
where Etcha and Et power charged into and discharged

,h dis represent the
,h

t [
χ +τ ≥ Γi,τ ,t

h ⋅φi ∀i, t, τ ∈ 0, νi
]

h − 1 (38) from the battery by house h at time t, respectively. The maximum
charging and discharging power rates are denoted as Emaxcha nd Emax

,h a dis,h,

10



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

respectively. Binary mode indicators MODEtcha,h and MODEtdis,h signify
whether charging or discharging is active for house h at time t, with ‘1’ 3.2.2. Ensuring grid-feasible P2P trading through power flow analysis
indicating the mode is active and ‘0’ otherwise. The state of charge of the Modeling the distribution network is crucial when evaluating the
battery is represented by SOCt

h, with SOCmin
h and SOCmax

h indicating the feasibility and impact of P2P energy trading. Ref. [62] pointed out that
minimum andmaximum allowable states of charge for house h’s battery. neglecting grid constraints like voltage limits and line loading capacities

The initial state of charge is given by SOC1h , while SOC
final can lead to overly optimistic results and potentially unsafe operating
h refers to the conditions. In this study, we address this challenge by integrating power

final state of charge at the end of the considered time horizon. The flow analysis into our P2P energy trading framework. We focus on a
charging and discharging efficiencies are given by μcha and μdis, typical LVDN segment operating at 240 V single-phase, representing a
(respectively). portion of a feeder downstream of a 12.47 kV/240 V distribution

The battery operational constraints are parameterized by the upper- transformer. Each house in our model is connected to a single phase of
level battery capacity decision variable yh, which defines the permissible the 240 V network. For simplicity, our analysis assumes single-phase
operating range for battery operations in the lower-level optimization. operation with loads modeled as constant power (PQ) and a power
Specifically, the maximum charging and discharging power rates (Emaxcha,h factor of 0.9, representing an approximation of typical residential ap-
and Emaxdis,h) are determined by the product of the battery C-rate parameter pliances. Inverters are assumed to operate at unity power factor. We
(Ec− rateh ) and the capacity yh, such that Emaxcha,h = Emaxdis,h = Ec− rateh ⋅yh. Simi- acknowledge that real-world networks may exhibit more complex load
larly, the allowable state of charge range is defined as a fraction of the behaviors and inverter characteristics. This simplified yet representative
battery capacity, where the minimum and maximum SoC bounds are set model allows us to capture the essential voltage and current dynamics
to SOCminh = Ψmin⋅yh and SOCmaxh = Ψmax⋅yh, respectively, with Ψ while maintaining computational tractability.

min and
Ψmax representing the lower and upper SoC coefficients to ensure proper To ensure the feasibility of the P2P trading schedule, our approach
battery operation and longevity. relies on a two-step process [63]: power flow analysis and voltage-aware

In the lower level, an iterative algorithm described in Algorithm 2 reoptimization:
[55] is utilized to allow the local market prices to converge.

3.2.2.1. Power flow analysis and feasibility check. After the initial opti-
Algorithm 2. Iterative algorithm for SDR-based internal pricing. mization determines load shifting and battery dispatch schedules based

The iterative process above is set to achieve SDR-based internal on market signals, the central coordinator performs a power flow
pricing in a P2P electricity market, where users iteratively adjust their analysis at each time interval. This analysis utilizes the network topol-
consumption to influence the price. The algorithm initiates by setting up ogy and updated power injections at each bus, calculated from the net
the necessary parameters for each house h in the set H . It then enters a
loop over the time horizons Δt ⊆ T . For each household, the lower-
level optimization in Eq. (36) is performed. This optimization calcu- Table 2

Line data of the 6-bus radial distribution system based on Aluminum Conductors
lates the net consumption NPh from the resulting slh as well as the TSP, Steel-Reinforced (ACSR) 1/0 overhead conductor [67].
TBP, and SDR. The internal local market price Pr is calculated. If the
difference between the current and previous iteration’s price Prold is Begin Bus End Bus rij xij Distance Current Rating

(i) (j) (Ohms) (Ohms) (km) (kA)
within tolerance ϵ, the algorithm terminates, returning the optimized
shiftable load consumption slh and the price Pr. If an agreement on the 1 2 0.0269 0.01975 0.05 0.24

local market price is not reached after |B | iterations, transactions are 2 3 0.02152 0.0158 0.04 0.24
3 4 0.03228 0.0237 0.06 0.24

made with the utility grid; otherwise, market clearance is performed. 2 5 0.03763 0.02765 0.07 0.24
3 6 0.04304 0.0316 0.08 0.24

11



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

load profiles considering PV generation, load shifting, and battery homes in Tompkins County, NY, to establish a representative original
operation. The AC power flow equations are solved using the Newton- consumption profile among residential households from the NREL’s
Raphson method to obtain the steady-state voltage profile (|Vh| for ResStock database [65]. These building characteristics are then simu-
each bus h) and line currents (|Il| for each line l). The coordinator then lated using EnergyPlus to obtain each household’s consumption pattern
checks if these values violate the operational constraints: of flexible loads [66]. In this study, we model each household as having

⃒ ⃒ a unique smart clothes dryer with a power rating between 2500 and
Voltage limits: Vmin ≤ ⃒Vt ⃒

h ≤ Vmax ∀h ∈ H , t ∈ T (49) 6000 watts. These power ratings are sufficient to impact load shifting for
peak load reduction because clothes dryers represent a substantial en-

Line loading limits: |Il| ≤ Imaxl ∀l (50) ergy draw within a typical household. Additionally, our load-shifting
strategy outlined in section 3.2.1 does not depend on factors like in-

3.2.2.2. Voltage-aware battery re-optimization. If constraint violations door/outdoor temperature or occupancy levels.
are detected, a voltage-aware re-optimization process is triggered. This Secondly, we generated residential solar PV generation data using
process, which modifies the lower-level optimization introduced previ- the PVwatts module on the System Advisor Model (SAM) [68]. Our
ously in Eq. (36), adjusts the battery charging and discharging profiles to simulation models typical U.S. residential solar PV systems with sizes
mitigate voltage deviations (vtsupport,h) from the nominal voltage Vref . We drawn from [61]. To ensure compatibility with our evaluation process,
first calculate the voltage support variable as follows we discretized the initially continuous solar PV capacities by rounding

them to the nearest typical size. However, we employ continuous sizes
Vt

vt h − Vref
for battery storage capacities because this allows for more precise

support,h = ΔVmax (51)
optimization of storage capabilities. Continuous battery sizing enables

where ΔVmax represents the maximum allowable voltage deviation from us to identify the exact storage capacity that maximizes economic ben-
the nominal voltage. This normalization scales the voltage support efits. It’s important to note that continuous solar PV sizes would demand
variable to be within the range of − 1 to 1, where − 1 corresponds to the more sophisticated forecasting techniques, but an in-depth exploration
minimum allowable voltage, and 1 corresponds to the maximum of those techniques lies outside the scope of this study.
allowable voltage. Then, we incorporate a voltage support cost term, Thirdly, we selected January and February for the simulation
( )2 because they typically exhibit higher energy consumption and lower

ε⋅ vtsupport nto he o
,h , i t riginal lower-level cost function and adjust the solar PV generation. This choice reflects worst-case design conditions

battery operation constraints to account for the voltage support variable: and reduces computational burden. After determining optimal capac-
( ( )) ities from this short-term simulation, we conducted a full-year simula-

Etcha,h ≤ Emaxcha,h⋅ 1 − max 0, vtsupport,h (52) tion (January to December) to calculate annual electricity bill savings
and economic metrics like discounted payback period. Our cost

( ( ))
Et modeling employs assumed values (e.g., solar PV module cost) from
dis,h ≤ Emaxdis,h⋅ 1+min 0, vtsupport,h (53)

NREL’s SAM software. We focus on PV, inverter, and battery upfront
The parameter ε is tuned to balance the trade-off between mini- costs, as permitting and installation costs vary. For electricity retail

mizing voltage deviations and ensuring P2P trading opportunities are rates, we incorporate Time-of-Use (ToU) tariffs based on New York State
not overly restricted. This approach ensures the proposed energy ex- Electric and Gas (NYSEG) off-, mid- and on-peak periods [69]. Weekdays
change schedules are not only economically beneficial but also adhere to have three distinct periods: on-peak (7 AM - 9 AM and 5 PM - 9 PM),
the physical limitations of the LVDN. mid-peak (10 AM - 4 PM and 10 PM - 11 PM), and off-peak (all other

hours). Weekends have two schedules: off-peak (12 AM - 6 AM) andmid-
4. Case study peak (7 AM - 11 PM). Furthermore, the simulation operates on two

distinct periods: trading and contract periods. The trading period occurs
4.1. Description the day before the contract period. During the trading period, prosumers

communicate their day-ahead, planned consumption, and forecasted
We apply our collaborative optimization framework to plan a P2P generation to the coordinator. If the market then clears, the contract

electricity trading community in Ithaca, New York. Ithaca’s aggressive period begins at 6 AM the following day, lasting 24 h. The day-ahead
decarbonization goals, including plans to electrify all buildings by 2030 planning horizon allows for a more structured approach to P2P
[64], create a fitting environment to assess the potential of emerging trading, enabling the determination of market prices before the actual
renewable energy integration technologies, including local energy energy exchange takes place.
markets. The case study involves six residential single-family homes,
where each household is assumed to be prospective adopters of solar PV 4.2. Benchmarking approach
and BESS. The six households are situated in an LVDN connected in a
radial manner, as shown in Fig. 1. Table 2 shows line data for the We benchmarked our framework against several scenarios, as out-
considered network. Our approach integrates various simulation tools lined in Table 3.
and data sources to establish a benchmark across different scenarios. For individual optimization, we use the same upper-level objectives

First, we obtained structural characteristics for six single-family as in collaborative optimization but apply them to individual houses.

Table 3
Benchmarking scenarios for evaluating capacity planning of a P2P community.
Scenario Description Acronym

Baseline No solar PV or BESS installed. –
Individual Optimization with Net Metering (NM) Each prosumer optimizes their solar PV and BESS capacities independently, using Borg IND + NM

MOEA and three objectives outlined above. In addition, the battery dispatch is set to
minimize incurred costs. The prosumers can export excess electricity to the grid for $ credit.

Individual Optimization with NM þ P2P Prosumers trade electricity peer-to-peer utilizing flexible loads, with system capacities IND + NM + P2P
derived from individual optimization.

Collaborative Optimization The proposed framework COL + NM + P2P

12



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

These objectives are minimizing bi-monthly peak load, minimizing Table 4
Key Case Study Parameters.

capital cost offset, and maximizing the portion of renewable electricity
used. We model battery dispatch to minimize operational costs Parameter Value Parameter Value

(including grid import and export) by optimizing battery operation. In Battery O&M costs, γ
Sensitivity coefficient, α 0.01 OBESS 15

the individual case, we assume no flexible appliances are present. ($/kWh)
Entropy-weight and Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Number of PV generation 10 Battery replacement cost, 273

an Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) method are applied to find the best solution realization, |S| γbcRepl ($/kWh)
Battery capital cost per kWh,

among the Pareto front solutions [70]. The entropy-weight method Total number of trials, |B | 15
γbckWh ($/kWh)

273.52
objectively determines the weights of different criteria based on the Internal local market price 1e-1 Battery capital cost per kW, 545.48
information contained in the data, with higher entropy indicating convergence criterion, ϵ γbckW ($/kW)
greater variability but less discriminatory power, thus receiving lower Standard deviation, σ 0.05 Utility fixed monthly service 15.11
weights. Conversely, criteria with lower entropy (less variability) charge, γfc ($)

Inflation rate, rinfl (%) 3.67 Battery C-rate, Ec− rate 0.3
receive higher weights as they provide more decisive information for Battery charging and
differentiation between alternatives. TOPSIS then uses these weights to Nominal discount rate, rdr 7.47 discharging efficiency, 0.95
rank alternatives by measuring their Euclidean distances from both an (%) μcha and μdis
ideal solution (combining the best values for each criterion) and a Annual load growth, Lgrowth On-peak utility ToU rates,

1
negative-ideal solution (combining the worst values). The alternative (%) λon− peak ($/kWh)

0.20

Mid-peak utility ToU rates,
with the shortest distance to the ideal solution and the longest distance Inverter cost, γic ($/kW) 0.46

λmid− peak ($/kWh)
0.10

from the negative-ideal solution is considered the best choice. It is Solar PV module cost, γmc 0.56 Off-peak utility ToU rates,
important to note that the entropy-weighted TOPSIS serves as a post- 0.075

($/kW) λoff − peak ($/kWh)
processing decision-making tool applied after optimization in both in- Solar PV O&M costs, γOPV 31 Utility feed-in tariff, λsell 0.05
dividual and collaborative settings. First, the capacity optimization ($/kW-yr) ($/kWh)

generates the complete Pareto front, presenting non-dominated solu- Minimum battery SoC 0.20 Maximum battery SoC 0.95
coefficient, Ψmin coefficient, Ψmax

tions and their trade-offs. Then, we apply the entropy method to assign Voltage support cost Maximum allowable nominal
weights based on the information entropy of these solutions. Finally, parameter, ε 1000 voltage deviation, ΔVmax ±5%

TOPSIS helps us select the most preferred solution according to these
weights.

In addition, the simulations are performed for 3000 Number of iterations. The cyan circle indicates the best solution obtained from
Function Evaluation (NFE) or iterations with Borg MOEA parameters as using the TOPSIS method.
suggested in [41]. Furthermore, we conducted a sensitivity analysis to From Fig. 4 (a), a lower mean capital cost offset correlates with a
evaluate the influence of the local market parameters, specifically ϵ (the lower mean bi-monthly peak load. This correlation arises because cap-
internal local market price convergence criterion) and α (the sensitivity ital cost offset reflects savings on electricity bills. Higher savings indi-
coefficient), on the payback period outcomes. We conduct the simula- cate successfully avoiding high retail electricity prices through strategic
tion using a compute cluster, leveraging 100 cores on five nodes to load shifting. This flexible load shifting directly reduces the household’s
parallelize the computation. monthly peak load by influencing internal local market prices and

driving convergence.
4.3. Parameters We analyzed the Pareto front solutions and calculated objective

weights based on entropy. This yielded weights of 0.38 for the mean
Table 4 summarizes the parameters for this case study, encompassing capital cost offset, 0.30 for the mean bi-monthly peak load, and 0.32 for

economic factors (e.g., inflation rate, inverter cost), technical specifi- the mean REP. Employing TOPSIS [70], we determined the best solution
cations of the solar PV and battery systems (e.g., PV module cost, battery offering optimal balance across the objectives: $3362 for mean capital
capital cost), operational constraints (e.g., voltage deviation, load cost offset, 18.53 kW for mean bi-monthly peak load, and 52.8 % for
growth), and simulation parameters (e.g., sensitivity coefficient, num- mean REP. This solution corresponds to the following solar PV sizes (in
ber of PV generation realizations). kWp): x1 = 7,x2 = 9,x3 = 4,x4 = 9,x5 = 7,x6 = 11, and battery ca-

pacities (in kWh): y1 = 3.8, y2 = 6.7, y3 = 3.3, y4 = 3.6, y5 = 3.8, y6 =
5. Results and discussions 3.2. This set of capacities establishes a foundational design for the P2P

trading community. This design should be refined through collaboration
5.1. Pareto front analysis with relevant stakeholders to create a comprehensive implementation

plan. This participatory approach is crucial for aligning the P2P market
A P2P electricity trading community must balance diverse stake- setup with the expectations of all participants, as emphasized in

holder interests. The utility grid prioritizes stability and reliability, users Ref. [71].
seek to minimize costs, and the wider population may prioritize sus- Fig. 4 (b) presents the hypervolume indicator as a function of the
tainability goals, including decarbonization. This study addresses these NFEs, allowing for a comparison of the convergence behavior and so-
concerns by focusing on three objectives: minimizing peak load and lution quality obtained by Borg MOEA and NSGA-II. The plot reveals
capital cost offset and maximizing users’ renewable electricity portion. that Borg MOEA achieves higher hypervolume values throughout the

Fig. 4 presents the Pareto front, the trade-off surface where im- optimization process compared to NSGA-II. This indicates that Borg
provements to one objective inevitably degrade another. It also includes MOEA more effectively explores the search space and identifies a wider
the hypervolume indicator plot, which quantifies the area covered by spread of diverse and high-performing solutions. As the NFE increases,
the Pareto front, indicating search convergence upon reaching a plateau. the hypervolume of Borg exhibits a marked and steady increase until it
Fig. 4 (a) shows the emergence of the Pareto front as a result of applying plateaus after 3000 NFE, signifying the convergence of the optimization
our collaborative optimization framework in the case study. Each point process. While NSGA-II’s hypervolume indicator is still increasing at the
represents a unique solar PV and battery storage configuration for each end of the observed timeframe, it remains lower than that of Borg. This
house. The x-axis denotes the bi-monthly peak load average, the y-axis enhanced performance with Borg MOEA is achieved with a reduced
indicates the mean capital cost offset, and the z-axis shows the mean computational cost, requiring only 8.6 h compared to 13.2 h for NSGA-
renewable electricity portion. Red circles highlight non-dominated so- II.
lutions, while purple circles highlight those dominated by previous Our case study demonstrates the bi-level optimization for a

13



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

Fig. 4. (a) Pareto front visualization demonstrating the trade-off between multiple objectives. Pareto optimal solutions are marked in red, dominated solutions are in
purple, and the TOPSIS [70] best solution is in cyan. Arrows indicate the direction of preference. (b) The hypervolume indicator quantifies the space enclosed by
Pareto front solutions and is plotted against the number of function evaluations (NFEs). The plot compares the convergence behavior of Borg MOEA (blue) and NSGA-
II (red). Borg MOEA performs better by achieving higher hypervolume values earlier in the optimization process than NSGA-II. (For interpretation of the references to
colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)

community with six households. Scaling to larger communities can pose MINLP optimization and market clearing to improve scalability and
increased computational burdens, particularly in the lower-level MINLP computational efficiency.
optimization, which involves various decision variables like continuous
variables for battery charging and discharging operations, binary vari- 5.2. Analysis of P2P energy community planning under different
ables for operational modes, and flexible load scheduling. The compu- scenarios
tational complexity is further amplified by market interactions between
households and the extended day-ahead time horizon of the Our approach uniquely optimizes solar PV and BESS sizing while
optimization. integrating flexible demand shifting. After performing both Individual

We use Message Passing Interface (MPI) for parallel computing in the (IND) and Collaborative (COL) optimization, we present the obtained
upper-level evolutionary algorithm, allowing simultaneous evaluations optimal solar PV and battery storage capacities in Table 5. Performing
of different capacity configurations. This approach targets small to individual optimization means only focusing on one’s consumption
medium-sized communities but sets the foundation for larger systems. patterns and maximizing profit. This is evident from the higher battery
Future research could focus on applying parallel methods to lower-level storage capacities on average in comparison with the obtained sizes

14



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

from COL because each household aims to become more self-sufficient shown in Fig. 5). This drives price convergence and utilization of the
and cost-efficient. local market. Fig. 6 showcases a sample day’s converged internal prices

Under IND, the BESS capacities vary more significantly across within the local energy market, comparing them against retail electricity
Households (H), with H4 being allocated the highest capacity at 7.9 kWh rates (under COL+ NM+ P2P). Four lines depict the P2P purchase price
and H3 the lowest at 3 kWh. In contrast, the COL approach appears to (green), P2P selling price (purple), retail electricity rates (orange), and
harmonize BESS capacities, drawing them closer together, such as the feed-in tariff (grey). The P2P purchase price indicates the maximum
reductions seen for H1 from 5.1 to 3.8 kWh and for H4 from 7.9 to 3.6 price a local buyer is willing to pay. Notably, P2P purchases and selling
kWh, while increasing for H2 from 3.6 to 6.7 kWh. Solar PV capacities consistently remain below the retail electricity rates. This pattern
remain unchanged for H4 and H5 across both scenarios, indicating a demonstrates the cost-savings for households to save money through
possible optimal sizing that benefits from both individual and communal P2P electricity trading, particularly during on-peak hours.
approaches. Notably, H6 shows an increase in solar PV capacity under From Fig. 7, we can see the different transactions between house-
COL, suggesting a shift in strategy to leverage shared resources more holds throughout the same sample day depicted in Fig. 6. Transactions
effectively. where households bought energy are indicated by positive values. In

Table 6 shows a comparison between scenarios outlined in Section contrast, households who sold energy are shown as negative values. By
4.2. The baseline consumption scenario, where there are no DERs comparing with Fig. 6, it becomes evident that all P2P trades were
involved, has a high bi-monthly peak load average of 23.7 kW. The IND executed at prices lower than the retail rates, illustrating the economic
+ NM scenario reduces the peak load to 21.4 kW (a 10.2 % improve- benefits of participating in the local energy market, especially during on-
ment), achieving a mean capital cost offset of $ 3427 and a mean REP of peak hours. Notably, P2P transactions occur throughout the day, with a
47.3 %. Incorporating P2P trading with flexible load (IND + NM + P2P) cessation after 20:00 due to insufficient excess supply available for
further enhances these metrics, yielding a peak load of 21.2 kW, a mean selling. Importantly, Fig. 7 displays a balanced pattern of buying and
capital cost offset of $3406, and a mean REP of 47.9 %. While the lower selling due to the local market’s effective pairing of supply with demand.
capital cost offset reflects increased savings through the local market,
the collaboratively planned scenario (COL + NM + P2P) demonstrates
the most significant reduction: peak load decreases to 18.5 kW (a 13.6 % 5.4. Analysis of voltage fluctuation and line loadings
reduction from the previous scenario), capital cost offset reaches $3362,
and REP increases to 52.8 %. These results demonstrate the benefits of Fig. 8 (a) presents voltage fluctuation data from power flow analysis
collaboration in performing capacity planning for P2P electricity trading conducted over a year with the optimal set of capacities categorized by
communities. This underscores the conclusions of Ref. [72], which season. The analysis reveals significant variations in voltage profiles
emphasizes the increased autarky achieved through dynamic P2P ex- across the network. House 1 exhibits the smallest voltage drop due to its
change over isolated self-consumption models. Flexible electricity proximity to the grid connection, while Houses 4 and 6 experience the
trading within a P2P community minimizes grid interactions, leading to largest voltage drops, reflecting their distant positions in the radial
greater community-level self-sufficiency. network. Winter is the most fluctuating season, likely due to limited PV

The reduction in peak loads results from individual households’ generation and high heating loads. Summer data shows numerous out-
iterative appliance load adjustment process to minimize their electricity liers, potentially resulting from high PV generation and increased
costs by shifting flexible demand away from high-cost periods. Fig. 5 trading activity. Despite these fluctuations, the voltage deviations
shows this flexible load shift for a sample household in Scenario COL remain within the ANSI standard range of 0.95 to 1.05 per unit (p.u.)

+
NM + P2P, where optimization moves the initial morning peak-hour [73], indicating the network’s ability to maintain acceptable voltage
load to 14:00 to align with solar PV generation. This strategic shift, levels under varying conditions.
directed by the lower-level optimization detailed in Eq. (36), aims to Fig. 8 (b) illustrates the line loadings of each segment in the network,
minimize costs, including both monetary and inconvenience costs. calculated by dividing the apparent power (S) flowing through each line

As households adjust their flexible load schedules, the SDR fluctu- by its maximum apparent power capacity (S_max) and expressing the
ates, influencing internal local market prices (P2P purchase and selling). result as a percentage. The network employs ACSR 1/0 overhead con-
This convergence reshapes the aggregated household load profile. The ductors, commonly used in secondary distribution, with a maximum
optimized profile avoids peak pricing, aligns consumption with favor- current capacity of 0.24 kA per segment. Line 1 exhibits the largest
able P2P market times, and reduces peak load in response to ToU rates. loading percentage, approximately 25 %, due to its direct connection to
We further enhance this shift mechanism by considering the actual the grid in the radial network configuration. This line carries the
flexible load consumption pattern during operation, represented by
constraints in Eqs. (37)–(39). This approach offers a more realistic Table 6
representation than the constant consumption assumption used in Comparative analysis under different scenarios.
Ref. [55]. Scenario Bi-Monthly Peak Mean Capital Mean Renewable

Load Average (kW) Cost Offset ($) Electricity Portion (REP)
(%)

5.3. Analysis of transaction behaviors in the local market with dynamic Baseline 23.7 – –
pricing IND + NM 21.4 3427 47.3

IND + NM 21.2 3406 47.9
+ P2P

Households strategically shift their flexible load to capitalize on COL + NM 18.5 3362 52.8
favorable prices within the local P2P market. They influence pricing + P2P
dynamics by adjusting their planned consumption of shiftable loads (as

Table 5
Optimized capacities for the six households under individual and collaborative optimization.
Approach H1 H2 H3 H4 H5 H6

Solar PV BESS Solar PV BESS Solar PV BESS Solar PV BESS Solar PV BESS Solar PV BESS

Individual Optimization (IND) 4 5.1 11 3.6 7 3 9 7.9 7 4.4 7 3
Collaborative Optimization (COL) 7 3.8 9 6.7 4 3.3 9 3.6 7 3.8 11 3.2

15



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

Fig. 5. Flexible load shift (before and after) from a sample house under Scenario COL + NM + P2P. The optimization shifts the flexible load’s operation time to align
with solar PV generation and avoid on-peak hours, achieving lower electricity costs.

cumulative load of all downstream branches. However, the maximum to 2.2 years, indicating an efficient adoption of P2P trading. The shift to
loading reaching only a quarter of the line’s capacity suggests significant scenario COL+NM + P2P, where houses implement collaborative opti-
room for future network growth. mization, results in the most marked improvement. The average

payback period across the households drops further to 1.8 years, with
house 3 achieving a short payback period of 1 year. Overall, Fig. 9

5.5. Payback period analysis demonstrates that as households engage more deeply with collaborative
optimization efforts in planning the P2P trading community, the greater

Fig. 9 presents the discounted payback periods for six households the reduction in payback periods they can experience.
under three different scenarios, with a clear trend towards shorter
payback times as the scenarios advance. In scenario IND + NM, which
employs net metering, houses 1 and 6 lead with the shortest payback 5.6. Sensitivity analysis of local energy market parameters
periods at 4.1 and 4.4 years, respectively, while housing 4 lags with the
longest at 6.8 years. The average payback period for this scenario stands We conducted a sensitivity analysis of the local market price
at 5.1 years. Moving to scenario IND+ NM+ P2P, which introduces P2P convergence criterion ϵ due to its crucial role in allowing local P2P
trading, the payback periods further decrease, with the average falling market usage. As described in Algorithm 2, households engage in an
to 3.1 years. House 1 leads in this scenario, reducing its payback period iterative adjustment of their flexible load, which in turn impacts the

Fig. 6. Comparison of retail electricity rates vs. Peer-to-Peer (P2P) market prices over a sample day in Scenario COL + NM + P2P. This figure illustrates the
successfully converged peer-to-peer purchase and selling prices against retail rates, emphasizing the economic advantage for households. During on-peak hours, the
P2P prices remain consistently lower, underscoring the substantial savings households can access by trading energy with their neighbors during high-
demand periods.

16



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

Fig. 7. Household participation in the P2P market (hours with transactions shown). Negative quantities indicate selling energy to the market; positive quantities
indicate buying. Symmetry in transactions highlights the market’s matching of supply and demand (e.g., at hour 16:00, House 3 buys from multiple sellers). In
addition, the local P2P market is being utilized during high-cost on-peak periods to reduce electricity bills.

Fig. 8. Seasonal voltage profiles and line loading of the 6-bus radial distribution network. (a) Box plots depicting voltage deviations across six houses over four
seasons, demonstrating larger voltage drops at network extremities and increased fluctuations during winter due to limited PV generation and high heating loads. (b)
Maximum line loading percentages for the five line segments.

pricing within the local peer-to-peer market. The parameter ϵ serves as We use capacities obtained from scenario IND + NM + P2P for the
the critical threshold for determining when this iterative process of price analysis, as IND + NM represents a baseline without P2P market usage.
adjustments has reached a point of convergence. This analysis explores We test a range of ϵ values (ϵ ∈ {1e − 1, 0.08,0.06,0.04,0.02,
the relationship between ϵ and the average discounted payback period. 1e − 2,1e − 3}). Fig. 10 (a) shows the inverse relationship between

17



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

ϵ and the mean discounted payback period. As ϵ decreases, the average demographics, geographic location and PV penetration levels. For
payback period lengthens, approaching that of IND + NM, as shown in instance, Ref. [49] found that moderate PV penetration levels facilitate
Fig. 9. This underscores ϵ’s importance in determining local market sufficient buying and selling activities in the P2P market and can
participation and the economic viability of DER investments for accommodate stricter convergence thresholds, provided that the shift-
prosumers. able loads are appropriately designed. Additionally, seasonal variations

In practical terms, a smaller ϵ value discourages P2P trades, leading and weather-related factors can affect the convergence process, as
houses to revert to individual load management using co-located battery higher variability may necessitate more iterations for price convergence.
storage. Crucially, this study assumes P2P trading depends on flexible Alternative approaches such as step-length control and adaptive
load shifting; without a P2P market, houses lack the incentive to utilize bidding strategies [49] could potentially enhance market stability, but
their load flexibility. Consequently, the benefits of participating in the their implementation involves trade-offs beyond the scope of our current
P2P market, such as improved energy cost savings and faster payback study. Our findings about the relationship between ϵ and P2P market
periods, are diminished. From the perspective of system operators and utilization are therefore specific to the characteristics of our case study,
market designers, understanding this relationship is essential for facili- particularly the discrete nature of shiftable loads, and may vary in
tating effective P2P market operations. Setting ϵ too low may lead to different contexts. Consequently, smaller ϵ values in our study effec-
market inefficiencies, reduced participation, and underutilization of tively reduce P2P trading activity, though this effect might differ in
demand flexibility. By calibrating ϵ appropriately, operators can systems with more gradual load flexibility or different prosumer
enhance market stability, promote active prosumer engagement, and behaviors.
support the overall efficiency of the energy system. For prosumers, this We also conduct a sensitivity analysis on the sensitivity parameter α,
means that overly stringent convergence criteria set by a coordinator which sets prosumers’ willingness towards load shifting (as outlined in
can reduce their incentives to participate in the P2P market—the Eq. (36)). We test α values of 0.01, 0.001, and 0.1. The results in Fig. 10
lengthened payback periods reflect decreased economic returns on their (b) indicate that when prosumers place a higher value on convenience
investments. Prosumers must therefore consider the trade-off between (larger α), they are less responsive to price incentives. This occurs as the
the precision of price convergence and the practicality of market lower-level optimization assigns a greater penalty for diverging from the
participation. original load profile, limiting the extent of load shifting and leading to a

A limitation of the SDR-based approach emerges from our sensitivity more ‘conservative’ approach—such conservative load shifting results in
analysis of the convergence criterion ϵ. While Algorithm 2 provides a reduced mean discounted payback periods. This conservative approach
tractable solution for lower-level market operations, convergence chal- provides local energy market stability but potentially leaves economic
lenges arise due to the discontinuous nature of flexible loads in our benefits unrealized.
model. Specifically, shiftable loads are adjusted using fixed discrete Conversely, if prosumers prioritize price sensitivity (smaller α), they
steps, resulting in sudden changes in energy demand in response to price demonstrate more aggressive load-shifting behavior. Their volatile load
signals. As highlighted by Ref. [49], smaller values of ϵ can lead to shifting disrupts internal price convergence, potentially lengthening
divergence and oscillation in local market prices under such conditions, payback periods. This leads to households exhibiting a more explorative
as adjustments occur in sudden increments rather than gradually. To approach towards load shifting, affecting internal pricing strategies and
maintain system stability, we implemented a fallback mechanism that potentially creating imbalances within the local energy market. Our
allows participants to default to individual operations with the utility findings support Ref. [55], highlighting the challenge of internal price
grid at retail prices when convergence isn’t achieved within a specified convergence within P2P systems as user power flexibility increases.
number of iterations. While this pragmatic approach ensures continuous This analysis highlights that, within our approach, ϵ and α are not
system operation, it may not capture the full economic potential of local just technical parameters but crucial factors shaping the economic
market interactions, potentially leading to missed savings opportunities. outcomes and stability of P2P energy markets. Careful calibration of

It is important to note that the impact of the convergence threshold ϵ these values is essential to balance efficient market operation with in-
on P2P market participation can vary based on factors such as prosumer centives for prosumer participation.

Fig. 9. Discounted payback periods for solar PV and battery investments under different scenarios. Individual bars show payback periods for six houses (H1-H6). The
collaborative approach (IND + NM + P2P) demonstrates significantly faster payback than other scenarios, as the average (dashed lines) indicates.

18



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

Fig. 10. Relationship between mean discounted payback period with (a) ϵ (local market price convergence criterion) and (b) α (sensitivity coefficient). In (a), as ϵ
decreases, local market utilization declines, leading to economic outcomes similar to those without a local market (as in Scenario IND + NM). In (b), as α increases,
households become less responsive to price incentives, reducing volatility within the local market.

6. Conclusion technical and non-technical barriers. These barriers include economic
considerations (market efficiency, fair benefit distribution), privacy

This study proposed a novel bi-level optimization framework to concerns (data sharing, transaction visibility), and social factors (trust,
address the challenges of capacity planning in community microgrids community engagement, technology acceptance). Furthermore, incor-
with P2P electricity trading. The framework explicitly emphasizes de- porating risk models and mitigation strategies for potential negative
mand flexibility and balances system- and adopter-level objectives. The impacts caused by malicious actors within the community will
proposed framework consists of upper- and lower-level optimization, strengthen future planning efforts.
where the Borg Multiobjective Evolutionary Algorithm (MOEA) and
Mixed Integer Nonlinear Programming (MINLP) approach were adop- CRediT authorship contribution statement
ted. Further, an internal pricing mechanism based on the Supply-
Demand Ratio (SDR) was used to illustrate the framework’s utility. Richard A. Mahuze: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original

Our findings indicate that collaborative capacity planning signifi- draft, Software, Methodology, Investigation, Data curation, Conceptu-
cantly surpasses individual approaches in P2P electricity trading com- alization. Ali Amadeh: Writing – review & editing, Methodology,
munities by effectively reducing peak loads. Specifically, the research Investigation. Bo Yuan: Writing – review & editing, Methodology,
highlights a peak load reduction of 13.6 % over individual planning and Investigation. K. Max Zhang: Writing – review & editing, Supervision,
P2P trading scenarios and a 24.6 % reduction compared to the baseline Methodology, Investigation, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization.
scenario, which excludes Distributed Energy Resources (DERs). This
reduction in peak load results from households utilizing demand flexi-
bility in response to local market pricing to lower costs. Moreover, the Declaration of competing interest
availability of electricity through P2P markets during peak hours plays a
crucial role in diminishing peak demand. The authors declare that they have no known competing financial

The study also reveals the economic advantages of collaborative interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence
optimization, with notable reductions in payback periods across various the work reported in this paper.
scenarios. This emphasizes the economic viability of P2P energy trading,
especially when integrated with collaborative optimization strategies Acknowledgments
for capacity planning. The average discounted payback period
decreased from 5.1 years in scenarios involving individual planning and The authors would like to acknowledge the support of the Cornell
net metering to 3.1 years with the inclusion of P2P trading capabilities. Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future and the Indonesia Endowment
A more substantial reduction to an average of 1.8 years was observed Fund for Education (LPDP) Scholarship (to RAM).
with collaborative capacity planning. These outcomes highlight the
significant benefits that collaborative efforts bring to capacity planning Data availability
and optimization in P2P trading communities.

Looking ahead, future research should focus on integrating policy Data will be made available on request.
simulations to assess how different regulatory scenarios impact P2P
market dynamics, capacity planning decisions, and overall system per- References
formance. Behavioral models incorporating adaptive bidding processes
and learning mechanisms should be investigated to address both [1] “Massive expansion of renewable power opens door to achieving global tripling

goal set at COP28 - news - IEA.” Accessed: Jul 31, 2024. [Online]. Available, htt

19



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

ps://www.iea.org/news/massive-expansion-of-renewable-power-opens-door-to performance at building cluster level. Appl Energy 2024;356:122312. https://doi.
-achieving-global-tripling-goal-set-at-cop28. org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2023.122312.

[2] “Renewable energy: Global capacity increased by 50% in 2023 | World Economic [28] Yaldız A, Gökçek T, Şengör İ, Erdinç O. Optimal sizing and economic analysis of
Forum.” Accessed: Jul. 31, 2024. [Online]. Available, https://www.weforum.org/a photovoltaic distributed generation with battery energy storage system considering
genda/2024/02/renewables-energy-capacity-demand-growth/. peer-to-peer energy trading. Sustainable Energy, Grids and Networks 2021;28:

[3] Anvari M, et al. Short term fluctuations of wind and solar power systems. New J 100540. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.segan.2021.100540.
Phys 2016;18(6):063027. https://doi.org/10.1088/1367-2630/18/6/063027. [29] Yu VF, Le THA, Gupta JND. Sustainable microgrid design with peer-to-peer energy

[4] “Queued Up: 2024 Edition, Characteristics of Power Plants Seeking Transmission trading involving government subsidies and uncertainties. Renew Energy 2023;
Interconnection As of the End of 2023 | Energy Markets & Policy.” Accessed: Jul. 206:658–75. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2023.02.003.
31, 2024. [Online]. Available, https://emp.lbl.gov/publications/queued [30] Yu VF, Le THA, Gupta JND. Sustainable microgrid design with multiple demand
-2024-edition-characteristics. areas and peer-to-peer energy trading involving seasonal factors and uncertainties.

[5] “Electricity – Renewables 2023 – Analysis - IEA.” Accessed: Aug. 01, 2024. Renew Sust Energ Rev 2022;161:112342. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
[Online]. Available, https://www.iea.org/reports/renewables-2023/electricity. rser.2022.112342.

[6] Zhang C, Wu J, Zhou Y, Cheng M, Long C. Peer-to-peer energy trading in a [31] Liu J, Yang H, Zhou Y. Peer-to-peer trading optimizations on net-zero energy
microgrid. Appl Energy 2018;220:1–12. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. communities with energy storage of hydrogen and battery vehicles. Appl Energy
apenergy.2018.03.010. 2021;302:117578. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.117578.

[7] Shrestha A, et al. Peer-to-Peer Energy Trading in Micro/Mini-Grids for Local [32] Ali L, Muyeen SM, Bizhani H, Ghosh A. A multi-objective optimization for planning
Energy Communities: A Review and Case Study of Nepal. 2024. https://doi.org/ of networked microgrid using a game theory for peer-to-peer energy trading
10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2940751. scheme. IET Gener Transm Distrib 2021;15(24):3423–34. https://doi.org/

[8] Paudel A, Chaudhari K, Long C, Gooi HB. Peer-to-peer energy trading in a 10.1049/gtd2.12308.
prosumer-based community microgrid: a game-theoretic model. IEEE Trans Ind [33] Zahraoui Y, Korõtko T, Rosin A, Agabus H. “Market Mechanisms and Trading in
Electron 2019;66(8):6087–97. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIE.2018.2874578. Microgrid Local Electricity Markets: A Comprehensive Review,” Energies 2023, Vol.

[9] Lee ZE, Zhang KM. Regulated peer-to-peer energy markets for harnessing 16, Page 2145, vol. 16, no. 5, p. 2145. Feb. 2023. https://doi.org/10.3390/
decentralized demand flexibility. Applied Energy 2023;336:120672. https://doi. EN16052145.
org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2023.120672. [34] Langevin J, et al. US building energy efficiency and flexibility as an electric grid

[10] Suthar S, Cherukuri SHC, Pindoriya NM. Peer-to-peer energy trading in smart grid: resource. Joule 2021;5(8):2102–28. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2021.06.002.
frameworks, implementation methodologies, and demonstration projects. Electr [35] Lee Z, Gupta K, Kircher KJ, Zhang KM. Mixed-integer model predictive control of
Power Syst Res 2023;214:108907. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2022.108907. variable-speed heat pumps. Energy and Buildings 2019;198:75–83. https://doi.

[11] Mensin Y, Ketjoy N, Chamsa-ard W, Kaewpanha M, Mensin P. The P2P energy org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2019.05.060.
trading using maximized self-consumption priorities strategies for sustainable [36] Shah MIA, Wahid A, Barrett E, Mason K. Multi-agent systems in peer-to-peer
microgrid community. Energy Rep 2022;8:14289–303. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. energy trading: a comprehensive survey. Eng Appl Artif Intell 2024;132:107847.
egyr.2022.10.400. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2024.107847.

[12] Amin W, et al. A motivational game-theoretic approach for peer-to-peer energy [37] Li J, Xu D, Wang J, Zhou B, Wang MH, Zhu L. P2P multigrade energy trading for
trading in islanded and grid-connected microgrid. Int J Electr Power Energy Syst heterogeneous distributed energy resources and flexible demand. IEEE Trans Smart
2020;123:106307. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2020.106307. Grid 2023;14(2):1577–89. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2022.3181703.

[13] Guerrero J, Gebbran D, Mhanna S, Chapman AC, Verbič G. Towards a transactive [38] Wang Z, Hou H, Zhao B, Zhang L, Shi Y, Xie C. Risk-averse stochastic capacity
energy system for integration of distributed energy resources: home energy planning and P2P trading collaborative optimization for multi-energy microgrids
management, distributed optimal power flow, and peer-to-peer energy trading. considering carbon emission limitations: an asymmetric Nash bargaining approach.
Renew Sust Energ Rev 2020;132:110000. https://doi.org/10.1016/J. Appl Energy 2024;357:122505. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.
RSER.2020.110000. APENERGY.2023.122505.

[14] Lopez HK, Zilouchian A. Peer-to-peer energy trading for photo-voltaic prosumers. [39] Khanal S, Khezri R, Mahmoudi A, Kahourzadeh S. Effects of energy sharing and
Energy 2023;263:125563. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2022.125563. electricity tariffs on optimal sizing of PV-battery systems for grid-connected

[15] Pena-Bello A, Parra D, Herberz M, Tiefenbeck V, Patel MK, Hahnel UJJ. Integration houses. Comput Electr Eng 2024;118:109457. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.
of prosumer peer-to-peer trading decisions into energy community modelling. Nat COMPELECENG.2024.109457.
Energy 2022;7(1):74–82. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00950-2. [40] Rodrigues DL, Ye X, Xia X, Zhu B. Battery energy storage sizing optimisation for

[16] Zhou Y, Wu J, Long C, Ming W. State-of-the-art analysis and perspectives for peer- different ownership structures in a peer-to-peer energy sharing community. Appl
to-peer energy trading. Engineering 2020;6(7):739–53. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. Energy 2020;262:114498. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.APENERGY.2020.114498.
eng.2020.06.002. [41] Hadka D, Reed P. Borg: an auto-adaptive many-objective evolutionary computing

[17] Schneiders A, Fell MJ, Nolden C. Peer-to-peer electricity trading and the sharing framework. Evol Comput 2013;21(2):231–59. https://doi.org/10.1162/EVCO_a_
economy: social, markets and regulatory perspectives. Energy Sources B: Econ Plan 00075.
Policy 2022;17(1). https://doi.org/10.1080/15567249.2022.2050849. [42] Parise G, Martirano L, Parise L, Mitolo M. “Safety evolution of residential

[18] Tushar W, et al. Peer-to-peer energy systems for connected communities: a review microsystems,” 2012 IEEE International Energy Conference and Exhibition,
of recent advances and emerging challenges. Appl Energy 2021;282:116131. ENERGYCON 2012, pp. 778–782. 2012. https://doi.org/10.1109/
https://doi.org/10.1016/J.APENERGY.2020.116131. ENERGYCON.2012.6348256.

[19] Barabino E, et al. Energy communities: a review on trends, energy system [43] Zheng B, Fan Y, Wei W, Xu Y, Huang S, Mei S. Distribution optimal power flow
modelling, business models, and optimisation objectives. Sustainable Energy, Grids with energy sharing via a peer-to-peer Transactive market. Front Energy Res Jul.
and Networks 2023;36:101187. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.segan.2023.101187. 2021;9:701149. https://doi.org/10.3389/FENRG.2021.701149/BIBTEX.

[20] Ali L, Muyeen SM, Bizhani H, Simoes MG. Economic planning and comparative [44] Liu C, Li Z. Comparison of centralized and peer-to-peer decentralized market
analysis of market-driven multi-microgrid system for peer-to-peer energy trading. designs for community markets. IEEE Trans Ind Appl 2022;58(1):67–77. https://
IEEE Trans Ind Appl 2022;58(3):4025–36. https://doi.org/10.1109/ doi.org/10.1109/TIA.2021.3119559.
TIA.2022.3152140. [45] Zhang Y, et al. HOMER-based multi-scenario collaborative planning for grid-

[21] Abid MdS, Apon HJ, Hossain S, Ahmed A, Ahshan R, Lipu MSH. A novel multi- connected PV-storage microgrids with electric vehicles. Processes 2023;11(8):
objective optimization based multi-agent deep reinforcement learning approach for 2408. https://doi.org/10.3390/pr11082408.
microgrid resources planning. Appl Energy 2024;353:122029. https://doi.org/ [46] Sahraei S, Asadzadeh M, Shafii M. Toward effective many-objective optimization:
10.1016/j.apenergy.2023.122029. rounded-archiving. Environ Model Softw 2019;122:104535. https://doi.org/

[22] Raya-Armenta JM, Bazmohammadi N, Avina-Cervantes JG, Sáez D, Vasquez JC, 10.1016/j.envsoft.2019.104535.
Guerrero JM. Energy management system optimization in islanded microgrids: an [47] Gonzalez JM, et al. Designing diversified renewable energy systems to balance
overview and future trends. Renew Sust Energ Rev 2021;149:111327. https://doi. multisector performance. Nature Sustainability 2023 6:4 Jan. 2023;6(4):415–27.
org/10.1016/J.RSER.2021.111327. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41893-022-01033-0.

[23] Spiliopoulos N, et al. Peer-to-peer energy trading for improving economic and [48] Gupta A, Liu M, Gold D, Reed P, Anderson CL. “Exploring a Direct Policy Search
resilient operation of microgrids. Renew Energy 2022;199:517–35. https://doi. Framework for Multiobjective Optimization of a Microgrid Energy Management
org/10.1016/j.renene.2022.08.061. System,” Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, vol. 2020-January, pp.

[24] Perera ATD, Zhao B, Wang Z, Soga K, Hong T. Optimal design of microgrids to 3137–3147. 2020. https://doi.org/10.24251/HICSS.2020.382.
improve wildfire resilience for vulnerable communities at the wildland-urban [49] Zhou Y, Wu J, Long C. Evaluation of peer-to-peer energy sharing mechanisms
interface. Appl Energy 2023;335:120744. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. based on a multiagent simulation framework. Appl Energy 2018;222:993–1022.
apenergy.2023.120744. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2018.02.089.

[25] Secchi M, Barchi G, Macii D, Moser D, Petri D. Multi-objective battery sizing [50] Paudel A, Gooi HB. Pricing in peer-to-peer energy trading using distributed
optimisation for renewable energy communities with distribution-level constraints: optimization approach. IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting, vol 2019-
a prosumer-driven perspective. Appl Energy 2021;297:117171. https://doi.org/ August Aug. 2019. https://doi.org/10.1109/PESGM40551.2019.8973868.
10.1016/J.APENERGY.2021.117171. [51] Li S, Zhou Y, Wu J, Pan Y, Huang Z, Zhou N. A digital twin of multiple energy hub

[26] Parvin M, Yousefi H, Noorollahi Y. Techno-economic optimization of a renewable systems with peer-to-peer energy sharing. Appl Energy 2025;380:124908. https://
micro grid using multi-objective particle swarm optimization algorithm. Energy doi.org/10.1016/J.APENERGY.2024.124908.
Convers Manag 2023;277:116639. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. [52] Zheng B, Wei W, Chen Y, Wu Q, Mei S. A peer-to-peer energy trading market
enconman.2022.116639. embedded with residential shared energy storage units. Appl Energy 2022;308:

[27] Ren H, Gao D, Ma Z, Zhang S, Sun Y. Data-driven surrogate optimization for 118400. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.118400.
deploying heterogeneous multi-energy storage to improve demand response

20



R.A. Mahuze et al. Applied Energy 384 (2025) 125289

[53] Tsao YC, Van Thanh V. Toward sustainable microgrids with blockchain flexibility programs. Appl Energy 2017;203:128–41. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.
technology-based peer-to-peer energy trading mechanism: a fuzzy meta-heuristic APENERGY.2017.06.040.
approach. Renew Sust Energ Rev Feb. 2021;136:110452. https://doi.org/10.1016/ [64] “City of Ithaca to become 100% decarbonized by 2030 – THE ITHACAN.” Accessed:
J.RSER.2020.110452. Feb. 25, 2024. [Online]. Available, https://theithacan.org/42334/news

[54] Lin J, Pipattanasomporn M, Rahman S. Comparative analysis of auction /city-of-ithaca-to-become-100-decarbonized-by-2030/.
mechanisms and bidding strategies for P2P solar transactive energy markets. Appl [65] Wilson EJ, Christensen CB, Horowitz SG, Robertson JJ, Maguire JB. Energy
Energy 2019;255:113687. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.APENERGY.2019.113687. efficiency potential in the U.S. Single-Family Housing Stock. Dec. 2017. https://

[55] Liu N, Yu X, Wang C, Li C, Ma L, Lei J. Energy-sharing model with Price-based doi.org/10.2172/1414819.
demand response for microgrids of peer-to-peer prosumers. IEEE Trans Power Syst [66] Crawley DB, et al. EnergyPlus: creating a new-generation building energy
2017;32(5):3569–83. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2017.2649558. simulation program. Energ Buildings 2001;33(4):319–31. https://doi.org/

[56] Kanakadhurga D, Prabaharan N. Peer-to-peer trading with demand response using 10.1016/S0378-7788(00)00114-6.
proposed smart bidding strategy. Appl Energy 2022;327:120061. https://doi.org/ [67] Santoso S, Beaty HW. “CONDUCTOR MATERIALS,” in Standard Handbook for
10.1016/j.apenergy.2022.120061. Electrical Engineers, 17th Edition., New York: McGraw-Hill Education, 2018.

[57] Kim HJ, Chung YS, Kim SJ, Kim HT, Jin YG, Yoon YT. Pricing mechanisms for peer- [Online]. Available, https://www.accessengineeringlibrary.com/conten
to-peer energy trading: towards an integrated understanding of energy and t/book/9781259642586/toc-chapter/chapter3/section/section2.
network service pricing mechanisms. Renew Sust Energ Rev 2023;183:113435. [68] Blair N, et al. “System Advisor Model, SAM 2014.1.14: General Description,” 2013,
https://doi.org/10.1016/J.RSER.2023.113435. Accessed: Feb. 25, 2024. [Online]. Available, www.nrel.gov/publications.

[58] Trutnevyte E. Does cost optimization approximate the real-world energy [69] “Time of use service rate - NYSEG.” Accessed: Feb 25, 2024. [Online]. Available,
transition? Energy 2016;106:182–93. https://doi.org/10.1016/J. https://www.nyseg.com/account/understandyourbill/electricpricing/time-of-use-
ENERGY.2016.03.038. service-rate.

[59] Dubey A, Santoso S. Electric vehicle charging on residential distribution systems: [70] Chen P. Effects of normalization on the entropy-based TOPSIS method. Expert Syst
impacts and mitigations. IEEE Access 2015;3:1871–93. https://doi.org/10.1109/ Appl 2019;136:33–41. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.ESWA.2019.06.035.
ACCESS.2015.2476996. [71] Wilkinson S, Hojckova K, Eon C, Morrison GM, Sandén B. Is peer-to-peer electricity

[60] Simpkins T, et al. “REopt: A Platform for Energy System Integration and trading empowering users? Evidence on motivations and roles in a prosumer
Optimization: Preprint,” 2014, Accessed: Mar. 21, 2024. [Online]. Available. www. business model trial in Australia. Energy Res Soc Sci 2020;66:101500. https://doi.
nrel.gov/publications. org/10.1016/J.ERSS.2020.101500.

[61] Ramasamy V, Feldman D, Desai J, Margolis R. U.S. Solar Photovoltaic System and [72] Pena-Bello A, Parra D, Herberz M, Tiefenbeck V, Patel MK, Hahnel UJJ. Integration
Energy Storage Cost Benchmarks: Q1 2021. Nov. 2021. https://doi.org/10.2172/ of prosumer peer-to-peer trading decisions into energy community modelling. Nat
1829460. Energy 2022;7(1):74–82. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00950-2.

[62] Nasiri S. “A Peer-to-Peer Energy Trading Framework in Distribution Systems [73] “Voltage Tolerance Standard – ANSI C84.1 – Voltage Disturbance.” Accessed: Aug
Considering Network Constraints,” Sep. 2023, Accessed: Aug. 02, 2024. [Online]. 02, 2024. [Online]. Available, https://voltage-disturbance.com/voltage-quality/
Available. https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.03132v1. voltage-tolerance-standard-ansi-c84-1/.

[63] Razmara M, Bharati GR, Hanover D, Shahbakhti M, Paudyal S, Robinett RD.
Building-to-grid predictive power flow control for demand response and demand

21