IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 66, NO. 8, AUGUST 2019 6087

Peer-to-Peer Energy Trading in a
Prosumer-Based Community Microgrid:

A Game-Theoretic Model
Amrit Paudel , Student Member, IEEE, Kalpesh Chaudhari , Student Member, IEEE,

Chao Long , Member, IEEE, and Hoay Beng Gooi , Senior Member, IEEE

Abstract—This paper proposes a novel game-theoretic infrastructures enables the residential consumers to harness en-
model for peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading among the pro- ergy and inject into the distribution systems. This advancement
sumers in a community. The buyers can adjust the energy changes the residential consumers into prosumers. An entity that
consumption behavior based on the price and quantity of
the energy offered by the sellers. There exist two separate has the capability to produce, consume, and possibly also has
competitions during the trading process: 1) price competi- demand response (DR) capacities is known as prosumer [2]. A
tion among the sellers; and 2) seller selection competition group of prosumers can be integrated as a prosumer energy com-
among the buyers. The price competition among the sell- munity. The small-scale power system in a house is known as a
ers is modeled as a noncooperative game. The evolutionary prosumer nanogrid [3]. The terms prosumer nanogrid and pro-
game theory is used to model the dynamics of the buyers
for selecting sellers. Moreover, an M-leader and N-follower sumer are used interchangeably in this paper. Several nanogrids
Stackelberg game approach is used to model the interac- serving in close proximity can be combined to form a commu-
tion between buyers and sellers. Two iterative algorithms nity microgrid.
are proposed for the implementation of the games such that A community microgrid presents a new basis for distribution
an equilibrium state exists in each of the games. The pro- grid with various operating constraints and business models.
posed method is applied to a small community microgrid
with photo-voltaic and energy storage systems. Simulation It aims at extending the benefits of the traditional microgrid by
results show the convergence of the algorithms and the ef- sharing the distributed energy resources (DERs) among multiple
fectiveness of the proposed model to handle P2P energy prosumers. In addition, the on-site use of energy generated from
trading. The results also show that P2P energy trading pro- local DERs through energy trading in a community is more
vides significant financial and technical benefits to the com- attractive than feeding the utility grid. This helps to alleviate
munity, and it is emerging as an alternative to cost-intensive
energy storage systems. the adverse impacts on the power systems [4]. A proper energy

trading model is necessary to manage the local energy trading
Index Terms—Community microgrid, energy storage, among multiple prosumers.

game theory, peer-to-peer energy trading, prosumer. The peer-to-peer (P2P) network is a widely used model for re-
I. INTRODUCTION source sharing in the field of computer science where resources

are located in and provided by computers (i.e., peers) at the

ENVIRONMENTAL benefits, financial incentives, and re- edge of the network [5]. Since a community microgrid consists
duction in electricity bills motivate house owners to in- of several prosumers in close proximity having their own gen-

stall renewable-based distributed generators and energy storage eration and demand, it can be modeled as a P2P network. A P2P
units at residential buildings [1]. Increasing deployment of dis- energy trading model seems to be suitable for energy trading
tributed generators and energy storage systems with intelligent in the prosumer-based community microgrid. P2P energy trad-

ing is flexible between peers, where excess energy from various
Manuscript received March 12, 2018; revised July 28, 2018 and August small-scale DERs is traded locally [6]. The P2P model encour-

28, 2018; accepted September 19, 2018. Date of publication October 12, ages local energy trading and DR to the available resources in a
2018; date of current version March 29, 2019. This work was supported
by the Energy Innovation Program Office through the National Research community [7].
Foundation and Singapore Energy Market Authority, under the Project Since P2P energy trading in a community microgrid is a new
LA Contract NRF2014EWT-EIRP002-005. (Corresponding author: Amrit concept, a proper modeling framework is required to define
Paudel.)

A. Paudel and H. B. Gooi are with the School of Electrical and the business models, to determine energy prices, as well as to
Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore implement DR programs in a community. The business model
639798 (e-mail:,amrit003@e.ntu.edu.sg; ehbgooi@ntu.edu.sg). and energy pricing play a vital role because they determine the

K. Chaudhari is with National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden,
Colorado 80401, USA (e-mail:,kalpesh.chaudhari@nrel.gov). suitability of P2P trading in a community microgrid in terms of

C. Long is with the School of Engineering, Cardiff University, CF24 financial benefits. The business model also forms a basis for the
3AA Cardiff, U.K. (e-mail:,chao.long.10@gmail.com). implementation of DR programs.

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available
online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TIE.2018.2874578 Section II, state of the art is presented and major

0278-0046 © 2018 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See http://www.ieee.org/publications standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



6088 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 66, NO. 8, AUGUST 2019

contributions in this paper are highlighted. The proposed model
of the community microgrid for P2P energy trading is explained
in Section III followed by the detail of evolutionary game among
buyers in Section IV. In Section V, detail of noncooperative
game among sellers is presented. Stackelberg game between
sellers and buyers is explained in Section VI. Detailed simu-
lation results are discussed in Section VII, and conclusion is
drawn in Section VIII.

II. STATE OF THE ART

A. Related Works
Alam et al. [8], has proposed a P2P energy trading model Fig. 1. Structure of a community microgrid for P2P trading.

for smart households. The optimal microgrid energy and price
for P2P trading are determined in order to minimize the total friendliness [21]. In situations where there are many prosumers
energy cost. A customer-to-customer business based on the ar- with conflicting interests, it would be quite challenging either
chitecture model for P2P energy trading is introduced in [9]. to capture such conflicting interests in the decision-making pro-
The bidding system called Elecbay is proposed for P2P trad- cess of each participant or to motivate them to cooperate for
ing, and simulation is done using game theory. An efficient and achieving the goals of P2P trading. Therefore, there should be
privacy-preserving P2P energy exchange scheme in a smart grid a proper tool for modeling the decision-making process such as
environment is presented in [10], with the novel optimization ap- deciding energy price, incorporating DR in P2P energy trading
proach to increase efficient energy transfer without information in a community microgrid. The modeling tool should be able to
leakage. In [11], a new algorithm has been proposed for au- deliver the energy management solution considering a diverse
tomating electricity trading by prosumers in the P2P electricity set of constraints in a trading process. In this context, consider-
market. A framework for performance evaluation using several ing the interactive and conflicting nature of energy trading in a
indices is proposed in [12] to assess the economic performance community microgrid, game theory is a very effective tool for
of P2P energy sharing models. A P2P index is developed to modeling the decision-making process of prosumers participat-
assess the feasibility of P2P energy trading in low voltage dis- ing in the P2P energy trading.
tribution system in [7]. Long et al. [13], has introduced different
P2P market paradigms using bill sharing (BS), mid-market rate
(MMR), and auction-based pricing strategies, but DR is not B. Major Contributions

considered. The main contributions of this paper are summarized as
In line with the above works on P2P energy trading, many follows.

researchers have carried out research works on DR management 1) A novel game-theoretic model is proposed for P2P en-
(DRM), energy sharing management, and real-time pricing ergy trading using direct interactions between buyers and
using various game-theoretical approaches in [4], [14]–[16]. sellers in a community microgrid considering the DR
Lee et al. [15], has proposed a competitive market based dis- capability and privacy of prosumers.
tributed mechanism for energy trading among microgrids using 2) The pricing competition among the sellers is modeled as a
multileader multifollower Stackelberg game. A Stackelberg noncooperative game; dynamics of buyers in the process
game theory is used to study the DRM from various aspects of selecting sellers are modeled as an evolutionary game;
in [17]–[19]. A hybrid approach using stochastic programming interaction between sellers and buyers is modeled as a
and Stackelberg game is presented in [14] to coordinate energy Stackelberg game.
sharing and energy consumption behavior of prosumers by 3) A novel iterative algorithm is proposed to reach the stable
using internal prices. state in the evolutionary game among buyers for the seller

In these works [4], [7], [13], [14], [20], a separate entity selection.
acted as an energy trading coordinator and was responsible for 4) A novel distributed algorithm is proposed to obtain the
the execution of energy trading. There was no direct commu- equilibrium in both noncooperative game among sellers
nication between buyers and sellers. However, since prosumers and Stackelberg game between buyers and sellers.
in a community are proactive, it is possible to perform P2P en-
ergy trading in a community with less involvement of energy III. SYSTEM MODEL
trading coordinator (i.e., using the direct communication or in-
teraction between buyers and sellers). The direct involvement A. General Structure of Community Microgrid
of each prosumer during the trading process is the main fea- Fig. 1 shows a structure of a smart community microgrid
ture of P2P energy trading. It poses the challenge of modeling comprising several prosumers. Each prosumer comprises loads
the decision-making process of each participant for the greater and photo-voltaic (PV) systems. Prosumers may or may not
benefit of the entire community microgrid while considering hu- have battery energy storage systems (BESS) since deploying
man factors such as rationality, motivation, and environmental energy storage systems in the residential level is costly. The PV

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



PAUDEL et al.: PEER-TO-PEER ENERGY TRADING IN A PROSUMER-BASED COMMUNITY MICROGRID: A GAME-THEORETIC MODEL 6089

system of a prosumer is connected to the load and ac system The nominal demand represents the demand from regular ap-
through dc/ac converter, which is also known as PV inverter. If pliances before the implementation of any DR program and the
any prosumer has both a PV system and a battery, they can be installation of BESS.
connected via a dc-coupled or an ac-coupled topology. In the
dc-coupled topology, the battery is connected to the PV system B. Battery Energy Storage Systems
at the dc side of the PV inverter through the dc/dc bidirectional Let Et−Δt

n and Et
n denote the battery energy level of pro-

converter as shown in Prosumer 1 in Fig. 1. In the ac-coupled sumer n at the beginning and the end of the time slot t, P t
topology, the battery is connected to the PV system at the ac ch,n

denote the battery charging power of prosumer n at time slot t,
side of the PV inverter through dc/ac bidirectional converter as and P t

dch,n denote the battery discharging power of prosumer
shown in Prosumer 2 in Fig. 1.

n at time slot t. Let ηtch,n and ηtdch,n denote battery-charging
All the prosumers in a community are connected to one an- and -discharging efficiencies of prosumer n. Assuming the self-

other through the bidirectional power and communication links, discharge of the battery is negligible and the charge/discharge
and a whole community microgrid is connected to the upstream power remains constant during a time slot, the dynamics of the
utility grid via a one grid connection point. Smart meters are in- battery level can be modeled as follows [22]:
stalled at each prosumer. Also, each prosumer has a local work- ( )
station with an energy management system called prosumer ψt P t

Et
n = Et−Δt

n + χtnP
t n
ch,n η

t
ch,n − dch,n

energy management system (P-EMS). P2P energy trading algo- Δ (
ηt

× t 3)
dch,n

rithm is integrated with the P-EMS software. The smart meter
measures the prosumer’s generation, consumption, and energy where χtn and ψtn are binary variables of prosumer n related to
transaction with other prosumers or with the grid and sends charge and discharge states in time slot t.
information to the local workstation for processing. To avoid simultaneous charging and discharging of the bat-

We assume that there is an agent called P2P market operator tery, the following condition is required:
(P2PMO), which assists in energy trading in a P2P market in a
community. P2PMO is a part of the distribution system opera- χtn + ψtn ≤ 1. (4)

tor and is assumed to serve free of charge to assist P2P trading In practical applications, the energy stored in a battery is re-
because P2P trading helps reduce the congestion in the distri- stricted within a certain range, i.e.,
bution system. Since the prosumers are serving nearby, and the

Emin
n ≤ Et

n ≤ Emax
amount of energy traded in the P2P market is small, we assume n (5)
that transmission losses and transmission cost are negligible. where Emax

n is the maximum capacity of the battery, and Emin
n

Smart meters are capable of communicating with other entities, is the minimum amount of energy that prevents the battery from
and workstations are powerful enough to carry out the computa- deep discharge.
tional tasks. During the trading process, all the communication The limits of charging and discharging powers are determined
tasks are done using the smart meters, and computations are by the size of the inverter as follows:
performed in local workstations.

0 ≤ P t
ch,n ≤ Pmax

With the existing infrastructures explained, the main aim of ch,n

this study is to develop an algorithm for P2P energy trading. The 0 ≤ P t
dch,n ≤ Pmax

dch,n (6)
detailed working processes of smart meters, communication sys-
tems, and physical infrastructures in the community microgrid where Pmax

ch,n and Pmin
ch,n are the maximum charging and discharg-

are beyond th{e scope of thi}s paper. ing powers.
Let N = 1, 2, 3, ..., N denote the set of the prosumers In the conventional peer-to-grid (P2G) trading, the excess PV

in the community with n ∈ N , and N  |N | gives the to- energy of the prosumer is used to charge the battery until the
tal number of prosumers in the community. We assume that battery is fully charged and the remaining is fed back to the
the total operation time is divided into different slots of equal grid. The stored energy is used to meet the demand when PV
interv{al Δt. In this} study we have considered Δt = 1 h. Let generation is lower than the demand. The prosumer buys energy
T = 1, 2, 3, ..., T denote the set of all operation time slots from the grid when there is insufficient energy from the PV and
with t ∈ T and T  |T | gives the total number of operation battery system.
time slots. In P2P energy trading, if any prosumer has excess PV energy,

The PV generation profile of prosumer n during a day can be the first priority is to supply to the neighbors who have unmet
defined as follows: consumption in the community and if there is any remaining

power, which is used to charge the battery. When the demand
{ } is higher than the PV generation, some of the unmet demand

Gpv,n = G1
pv,n , G

2
pv,n , G

3
pv,n , ..., G

T
pv,n , n ∈ N . (1)

is satisfied by buying PV power from the neighbors through
the P2P market at first, and the remaining, if there is any, is

The nominal demand profile of prosumer n during the same met by discharging the own battery and buying power from the
period can be defined as follows: grid. Furthermore, the stored energy in a particular prosumer’s

{ battery can be used to supply its own demand only when that
Dn = D1

n ,D
2
n ,D

3 }
n , ...,D

T
n , n ∈ N . (2) prosumer participates in the P2P market. This is because if any

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



6090 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 66, NO. 8, AUGUST 2019

prosumer can sell stored energy in the P2P market, the prosumer where yto,n is the nominal nonflexible demand of prosumer n at
having high storage capacity and high excess generation during time t.
certain hours can influence the market in other hours, which Assume that all the flexible loads are continuous in nature.
discourage other prosumers to participate in the P2P market. Their reduction affects the comfort level and reduces the energy

The use of battery systems should be justified by saving due cost of the prosumers.
to its use. If Cc is the capital cost of the battery system (i.e., the If the amount of flexible load in nominal case at any time t is
cost of the battery and converter),Cm is the annual maintenance βDt

n , then we have the following:
cost of the battery, and Ndays is the number of days in a year,
then the equivalent daily cost (EDC) of the battery is given 0 ≤ ztn ≤ βDt

n , 0 ≤ β ≤ 1 (14)
by [23] where β is proportion of flexible demand.

EDC = Cc ×
r(1 + r)l × 1 C

+ m (7)
(1 + r)l − 1 N E. Utility Function

days Ndays

where r is the discount rate, and l is the lifetime of the battery The responses of different prosumers to various scenarios can
in years. The use of the battery is beneficial only if the saving be modeled by using the concept of utility function [24]. The
in a day is higher than the EDC. utility function is a method to quantify the level of satisfaction

or happiness that the prosumer receives when it consumes a
C. Classification of Prosumers as a Seller and a Buyer certain amount of power.

If x is the power consumption level and λ is the parameter
The generation-to-demand ratio (GDR) of a prosumer n ∈ N to distinguish a prosumer from the others, the utility function

in a given time period t ∈ T is defined as follows: can be represented by U(x, λ). There are two types of util-
Gt ity functions frequently used for modeling the electricity con-

GDRt
n = pv,n

. (8) sumers. They are logarithmic utility function [14]–[17], [25]
Dt
n

{ } and quadratic utility function [18], [19], [24].
Let S = n ∈ N|GDRt

n > 1 represent the set of sellers at In this paper, we consider a quadratic utility function to quan-
time slot twith index j ∈ S, and S = |S| gives the total number tify the satisfaction of prosumer n ∈ N at time t ∈ T
of sellers at{time t. }

Let B = n ∈ N|GDRt
n < 1 represent the set of buyers at utn (xtn ) = λtnx

t
n − θn (xtn )2 xtn,min ≤ xtn ≤ xtn,max (15)

2
time slot twith index i ∈ B, andB = |B| gives the total number
of buyers at time t. where λtn > 0 is a prosumer preference parameter character-

The amount of power the prosumer j ∈ S can sell (export) at izing the prosumers’ behaviors, which vary from prosumer to
time t is prosumer and may also vary along the time, and θn > 0 is a

predetermined constant [24]. The terms xtn , xt
P t

ex,j = (GDRt
j − 1)Dt

j . (9) n,min, and xtn,max
are the actual power consumption, its lower limit, and upper

The maximum amount of power the prosumer i ∈ B can pro- limit for prosumer n at time t, respectively.
cure at time t is

F. Welfare Function for Buyer and Seller
P t

im,i = (1 − GDRt
i)D

t
i . (10)

If any buyer i ∈ B chooses seller j ∈ S, the welfare function
D. Nonflexible and Flexible Demands of Prosumer of the buyer i can be defined as follows:

Suppose that xtn , ytn , and ztn represent the total demand, non- Wt
i = uti(x

t
i) − πtjx

t
j,i . (16)

flexible demand, and flexible demand of the prosumer n ∈ N
For any buyer i ∈ B

at time t ∈ T , respectively. The total demand of prosumer n at
any time t can be defined as follows: xti,min ≤ xti ≤ xti,max

xtn = ytn + ztn . (11) xti = xtj,i +Gt
i . (17)

Let Yo,n andZo,n denote the nominal nonflexible and flexible Based on (17), the following condition is always true:
demand profiles of the prosumer n ∈ N . According to (11), the

xtj,i,min = xti,min −Gt
nominal demand of the prosumer n can be expressed as follows: i

Dn = Yo,n + Zo,n . (12) xtj,i,max = xti,max −Gt
i

The critical (nonflexible) loads are fixed and have no contribu- xtj,i,min ≤ xtj,i ≤ xtj,i,max (18)
tion to DR. The total demand of the prosumer can be modified
by adjusting the flexible demand. The adjusted demand of the where πtj , x

t
j,i , x

t
j,i,min, and xtj,i,max are the price decided by

prosumer n ∈ N at time t ∈ T can be defined as follows: seller j, actual power the buyer i buys from seller j, and its
lower and upper power limits buyer i can buy from the seller j

xtn = yto,n + ztn (13) at time t, respectively. Now, the welfare function of any buyer i

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



PAUDEL et al.: PEER-TO-PEER ENERGY TRADING IN A PROSUMER-BASED COMMUNITY MICROGRID: A GAME-THEORETIC MODEL 6091

In addition to the separate competition at the two levels of
the P2P market, there is an interaction between the two levels.
The main aim of this interaction between two levels is to set the
appropriate strategies for both sellers and buyers to maintain
the balance between supply and demand in the P2P market. In
this paper, interaction between the two levels is modeled as a
Stackelberg game.

IV. EVOLUTIONARY GAME AMONG BUYERS

In general, the players of the game are arranged in multiple
groups. In this paper, without loss of generality, all the buyers
are arranged in a single group, and there is only one population
scenario in the game. The evolutionary game for P2P energy

Fig. 2. Two levels of competition in P2P market. trading in the community can be precisely defined as follows:
1) Players: buyers i ∈ B;
2) Population: set of buyers;

given by (16) can be expressed as follows: 3) Strategy: selection of seller;
Wt 4) Utility: welfare function of the buyers.

i (x
t
j,i) = uti(x

t
j,i +Gt

i) − πtjx
t
j,i . (19)

We have arranged all the buyers in a single population group,
The welfare function of the seller j ∈ S can be defined as so all the buyers will show the same behavior, i.e., the strategy
follows: of each buyer in the population is identical. Each buyer selects a

Wt seller to purchase power when they receive the price announced
j = utj (x

t
j ) + πtjmin(P t

ex,j , S
t
j ). (20)

by sellers. Each buyer then gradually adjusts its selection strat-
Stj is the total demand of electricity coming to seller j at time egy and acts independently in the selection process [25].
t and is defined in (22). For any seller, the nominal demand is Let γtj be the probability of the buyer i ∈ B choosing a seller
always satisfied so that xtj = Dt ∑

j . j ∈ S at time t, where 0 ≤ γtj ≤ 1 and S
j=1 γ

t
j = 1. Since

the strategies of all the population (buyers) are identical, the
G. P2P Energy Trading Between Buyers and Sellers population state can be denoted as γt = [γt1 , γ

t
2 , γ

t
3 , ..., γ

t
S ].

The aim of P2P trading is to maximize the welfare of both When buyer i selects seller j, the optimal amount of power
buyers and sellers, and reduce the dependence on the upstream buyer i buying from seller j can be achieved by maximizing the
grid. P2P energy trading is carried out in the following steps. welfare given by (19) subject to (18). Mathematically, we have

1) Prosumers register into a P2P market as a seller or a buyer, the following:
based on their GDR.

2) After grouping of prosumers as a seller or a buyer, xt∗j,i = arg maxWt
i . (21)

xtP2PMO assigns a unique and encrypted identity to each j , i

buyer and each seller, which maintains the anonymity of
sellers and buyers ensuring privacy. The total demand of electricity comes to the seller j at time t

3) The P2PMO sends uniquely assigned buyer identities to is given by

all sellers and seller identities to all buyers. This estab- ∑B
lishes direct communication between sellers and buyers. Stj = γtj xt∗j,i . (22)

4) Each anonymous seller and each anonymous buyer par- i=1
ticipate in a P2P energy trading game to obtain the stable
state. The supply-to-demand ratio (SDR) for seller j at time t can

5) Finally, P2PMO receives information about the final price be defined as follows:
and amount of energy traded anonymously by different

P t t
prosumers to settle the financial transactions. νtj = ex,j Pex,j αt

St
= = j

∑
t

j γ B t∗ 2 )
γt

( 3
There are multiple sellers and multiple buyers in the com- j i=1 xj,i j

munity. Two levels of competition exist in this multiseller and
multibuyer P2P energy trading market as shown in Fig. 2. P t

where,αt x, j
j = ∑ e

B
i= 1 x

t ∗ , andαtj , P
t
ex,j , and πtj are constant during

The competition at the higher level is among the sellers to j , i

the evolution process.
sell their excess energy to the group of buyers at the lower The actual amount of power that buyer i buys from seller j at
level. In this paper, competition among the sellers is modeled time t is given as follows:
as a noncooperative game. The competition at the lower level is
among multiple buyers to select the sellers to buy energy offered {

γtjx
t∗
j,i νtj ≥ 1

by them. In this paper, an evolutionary game approach is used xtj,i,actual = . (24)
for competition among the buyers. νtj γ

t
jx

t∗
j,i νtj < 1

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



6092 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 66, NO. 8, AUGUST 2019

Assume that the net utility of seller j at time t can be defined
as the accumulated welfare of all buyers obtained from seller j.
There are two possibilities as follows.

Case 1: If P t
ex,j ≥ Stj , then the net utility is

σt
1 ∑B

j = θ (xt∗ )2 . 2
2 i j,i + C ( 5)
i=1

Case 2: If P t
ex,j < Stj , then the net utility is

[ ]
(νtj )

2 ∑B
σtj = νtj − θ (xt∗

2 i j,i)
2 + C. (26)

i=1
( )

In both (25) and (26), C = λtiG
t
i − θi

2 (Gt
i)

2 .
The replicator dynamics is designed to depict the selection

dynamics of the buyers as follows:

∂γtj = γt
∂ i (σ

t
j − σt) (27)

t
where σt denotes the average utility, and it can be calculated as
follows:

∑S
σt = γt t

j σj . (28)
j=1

A stable condition at which the population will not change its
selection is referred to as evolutionary stable strategy (ESS). The detailed algorithm to reach the evolutionary equilibrium
Mathematically, we have the following: is given in Algorithm 1.

∂γtj = γ̇t V. NONCOOPERATIVE GAME AMONG SELLERS
∂ j = 0. (29)
t

The condition for stable state in evolutionary game can also Each seller aims at maximizing its own welfare by selling

be written as follows: the power to buyers who need it. They are noncooperative and
behave in a rational manner. A noncooperative game is used to

σt1 = σt2 = ... = σtS = σt. (30) model the competition among the sellers as follows.
∑ 1) Players: selling role prosumers or sellers j ∈ S;

If we consider the dynamics of S
j=1 γ

t
j , then 2) Strategy: the price πtj ∀j ∈ S and ∀t ∈ T ;

∑
∂ S t ∑

j=1 γ ∑S S 3) Utility: the welfare of the sellers.
j = γt t

∂ j (σ
t

j − σt) = σ − σt γtj . (31) The welfare function of the seller j ∈ S given in (20) can be
t

j=1 j=1 rewritten as
∑ {

Using (29) and (31), it can be proved that S
j=1 γ

t
j = 1 is utj (x

t
j ) + πtjS

t
j P t

ex,j > St

always valid during the game. The equilibrium in the evolution- Wt j
j = . (34)

ary game is denoted by γt∗ = [γt∗ utj (x
t
j ) + πtjP

t
ex,j P t

ex,j ≤ Stj
1 , γ

t∗
2 , γ

t∗
3 , ..., γ

t∗
S ]. The con-

vergence of the game to the evolutionary equilibrium given in The solution of the game is called Nash equilibrium (NE), which
(29) using the replicator dynamics given in (27) can be proved includes the energy price and amount of the energy sold. NE
via Lyapunov theory [26]. A concept of multiple populations is exists in the game if the following conditions are satisfied [27].
used when there is a large number of players [25]. (1) The player set is finite.

The replicator dynamics can be approximated by using the (2) The strategy sets are closed, convex, and bounded.
discrete replicator in iterative way, though it is time continuous. (3) The utility functions are continuous and quasi-concave
The discrete replicator for approximation of replicator dynamics in the strategy space.
is defined as follows:

( ) There are S number of sellers, so that the player set is al-
γtj (k + 1) = γtj (k) + η1γ

t
j (k) σt ways finite. The game first starts by announcing the price πtj by

j (k) − σt(k) . (32)
the seller. There are limits on πtj such that πtj ∈ [πtj,min, π

t
j,max].

The termination criterion is defined as The lower bound πtj,min is normally determined by the genera-

| tion cost and the operating expenses. The upper bound πt
σt j,max is
j (k) − σt(k)| < ε (33)

fixed by the government policies. The sellers must consider
where k is the iteration number, η1 is the adjustment parameter, the price limits during the game. In this paper, we choose
and ε is a small positive constant. feed-in-tariff ρsell as the lower limit and the grid buying price

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



PAUDEL et al.: PEER-TO-PEER ENERGY TRADING IN A PROSUMER-BASED COMMUNITY MICROGRID: A GAME-THEORETIC MODEL 6093

ρbuy as the upper limit such that πtj ∈ [ρsell, ρbuy ]. Hence, the
strategy sets are nonempty, closed, bounded, and convex.

The utility function given in (34) is a continuous function of
πtj . Since the welfare Wt

j of seller j increases with amount of
power for a given πtj , the seller shall assume that all the available
power to export, P t

ex,j , can be sold to the buyers. The game will
be stopped when all the P t

ex,j is sold or all Stj is satisfied.
If P t

ex,j ≤ Stj , then

∂2(Wt
j ) = 0. (35)

∂(πtj )2

If P t
ex,j > Stj , the second-order derivative ofWt

j with respect
to πtj is given by

∂2(Wt ∑B
j ) 1

< 0. (36)
∂(πt 2 = −2λtj

j ) θ
i=1 i

where l is the iteration counter, η2 is the speed adjustment pa-
∂ 2 (W t )

Combining (35) and (36), we get j
2 ≤ 0, so that Wt

∂ (π t j is rameter, and ε is a small positive number.
j )

always quasi-concave in πt e energy trading game starts with an announcement of
j . Therefore, we can conclude that Th

NE exists in the noncooperative game among the sellers. the price vector from the sellers. The buyers then receive the
announced price vector and play the evolutionary game. When

VI. S the buyers obtain evolutionary equilibrium for a given price
TACKELBERG GAME BETWEEN SELLERS AND BUYERS

vector, they send the information of ESS back to the sellers.
The interaction behaviors between the sellers and buyers can Once the sellers receive the updated strategy from the buyers,

be modeled as an M-leader and N-follower Stackelberg game. they participate in the noncooperative game and update their
The sellers are the multiple leaders, and the buyers are the price, and the process is repeated until the final equilibrium
multiple followers. Stackelberg game establishes a relationship state is reached. The detailed process is given in Algorithm 2.
between the evolutionary game and the noncooperative game. P2P energy trading algorithm proposed in this paper uses
The output of the noncooperative game, i.e., price vector, is an iterative pricing mechanism. The demand from the buyers
used as an input to the evolutionary game to update the seller would change in response to the prices provided by the sellers,
selection strategy. The output of the evolutionary game, i.e., and this change will, in turn, affect the sellers’ prices. If there
ESS or seller selection probability, is used as an input to the are a large numbers of prosumers, the change in the energy
noncooperative game to update the price vector. So, all the demand may be such high that the prices may oscillate heavily.
three games are related to each other. All the buyers receive This fact may lead to an outcome where the seller selection
the announced price vector from the sellers and participate and pricing iteration never end, i.e., the algorithm does not
in the evolutionary game. Once the ESS is obtained in the evo- converge. The convergence of the algorithm is essential for
lutionary game, sellers update their price to obtain an NE, i.e., its implementation. If the convergence cannot be guaranteed,
price. control measures should be taken to enhance the convergence

The sellers are involved in a noncooperative game, and any of the algorithm.
seller does not know the information of other sellers. In this sce- The step length control method [28] is used to deal with
nario, it is not possible to obtain the NE by analytical method, the effect of random exploration for better convergence of the
and iterative approach must be used. An iterative distributed al- algorithm. The step length control at each iteration of price
gorithm is designed to obtain the NE among the sellers such that update can be achieved by the following:
the Stackelberg equilibrium (SE) is reached in the Stackelberg ( )
game between sellers and buyers. The price updating strategy max πt t

j (l) − Δ, π πtj,min ≤ j (l + 1)
of the seller j is designed as follows: ( )

( ) ≤ min πtj (l) + Δ, πtj,max , Δ = ζ|πtj (l)| (40)
πtj (l + 1) = πt t

j (l) + η2 Sj (l) − P t
ex,j . (37)

where ζ is a nonnegative ramping rate.
The termination criterion is defined as follows: This technique limits the ramping rate of the price in the

iterative process. The buyers reject any price that exceeds
|πtj (l + 1) − πtj (l)| < ε. (38) the prescribed ramping rate so that all the sellers have to

Alternatively, the termination criteria in (38) can be expressed obey the ramping rate limit. Since the buyers’ strategies are
as follows: the response to the sellers’ prices, step length control method

for price update in Algorithm 2 ultimately improves the conver-
|Stj (l) − P t

ex,j | < ε (39) gence of Algorithm 1.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



6094 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 66, NO. 8, AUGUST 2019

Fig. 3. GDR of all prosumers.
Fig. 4. Convergence of evolutionary game at t = 11.

VII. SIMULATION RESULTS

This section presents the results of simulation studies to assess
the performance of the proposed game-theoretic model for P2P
energy trading in a prosumer-based community microgrid. We
consider a community microgrid that consists of five prosumers.
The community microgrid is connected to the utility grid, thus
the prosumers can trade with one another as well as the retailers.
Each prosumer has a solar PV system. Each prosumer has both Fig. 5. Convergence of average net utility at t = 11.
the flexible and nonflexible demands. The generation and load
profiles of each prosume{r in the commu}nity are taken from [20].
For one day study T = 1, 2, 3, ..., 24 .

The value of λti is selected randomly from [5, 10], and θi is
taken as 0.5. Based on the actual electricity price of Singapore,
the buying price of electricity from the grid, ρbuy , is taken as
20 cent/kWh. The selling price to the grid, ρsell is assumed to
be 2 cent/kWh. Since the solar PV is used as a local generation,
we assume that the P2P market is active only during the day
time from 9:00 to 18:00 hours. Prosumers 2 and 5 have installed
the battery of 20 kWh capacity. Lithium-ion batteries are con- Fig. 6. Convergence of mismatch between individual net utility and

average net utility at t = 11.
sidered is this paper. The minimum battery capacity, Emin

i , is
4 kWh, the charging/discharging efficiency is taken as 90%, and
the charging/discharging capacity is assumed to be 3 kW. The
capital cost Cc of 20 kWh Tesla Powerwall is 7800 Singapore
Dollar (SGD) [29]. The discount rate r is taken as 5% in this
paper, the lifetime is set to 15 years, and the maintenance cost
Cm for the given size of the battery is 150 SGD.

Based on the value of GDR, the prosumers can behave as
sellers or buyers during the day time. The GDR of the prosumers
at each time slot is shown in Fig. 3. We choose time slot 11 to
demonstrate the performance of the proposed method. At time Fig. 7. Convergence of price of sellers at t = 11.

slot 11, Prosumers 1 and are treated as sellers, and the remaining
three prosumers are buyers. Fig. 6. Figs. 5 and 6 ensure that buyers get better welfare at

the ESS.

A. Convergence of the Evolutionary Game B. Convergence of Noncooperative Game and
Among Buyers Stackelberg Game

Each buyer participates in the evolutionary game to find the We proposed Algorithm 2 for two purposes: 1) to perform
probability of buying power from a particular seller, which is an price competition among the sellers using noncooperative game;
ESS. Fig. 4 shows the convergence characteristics of the evolu- and 2) to carry out the negotiation between the buyers and the
tionary game, and it depicts that buyers converge to the stable sellers using Stackelberg game. Since the sellers are leaders of
strategy by executing Algorithm 1. The convergence character- the game, the solution of the Stackelberg game is an optimal
istics of the average net utility are shown in Fig. 5. The average response for the price announced by the sellers.
net utility is settled at a certain value after it reaches a maxi- Fig. 7 shows the convergence characteristics of price of sellers
mum value. The convergence process of the mismatch between to the NE. As the price of sellers approaches NE, the power
the individual net utility and the average net utility is shown in demand from the buyers to the sellers also converges to a certain

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



PAUDEL et al.: PEER-TO-PEER ENERGY TRADING IN A PROSUMER-BASED COMMUNITY MICROGRID: A GAME-THEORETIC MODEL 6095

Fig. 8. Convergence of power demand of sellers at t = 11.

Fig. 11. Total power imported from the grid without BESS.

Fig. 9. Convergence of welfare of sellers at t = 11.

Fig. 12. Total power exported to the grid without BESS.

C. Comparison of Results
In this section, we have analyzed and compared the results of

the proposed method with state of the art from various aspects
Fig. 10. Convergence of SDR of sellers at t = 11. to evaluate its performance. At first, we have considered three

cases: 1) P2G trading without BESS; 2) P2P without both DR
value and ensures the existence of the SE in the trading process. and BESS; and 3) P2P with DR but without BESS using the
The convergence characteristics of power demand of sellers are proposed game-theoretic model. The total power imported from
shown in Fig. 8. The welfare of the sellers gradually increase the grid and the total power exported to the grid in the above
and settles at a certain maximum value as shown in Fig. 9. The three cases are shown in Figs. 11 and 12, respectively. The effect
convergence characteristics of SDR are given in Fig. 10, and of P2P trading and DR application can be observed from t = 9
they ensures that power demand and supply match at the end of to t = 18 in Figs. 11 and 12, which is the assumed operation
the game. time of the P2P market. In Fig. 11, the power imported from the

The amount of power (in kW) buyer i can buy from seller j grid reduces with the application of P2P method and reduces
at the equilibrium state is given as follows: further with the application of P2P method with DR using the

Buyers(2, 3, 4) proposed method. Similarly, the power exported from the grid is
[ ] reduced with the application of P2P with DR using the proposed

3.31 84.38 43.56 method compared to P2G but can be seen nearly equal when
Sellers(1, 5) .

3.31 84.45 43.56 compared with P2P without DR. Hence, Figs. 11 and 12 high-
light that the proposed methodology reduces the dependence on

The actual amount of power (in kW) the buyer buys from the the grid by efficiently allocating all the available energy within
seller as given by (24) is as follows: the community microgrid.

Buyers(2, 3, 4) The overall cost of each prosumer using various approaches of
[ ] P2P trading is given in Table I. The total cost of the community

0.8141 20.7529 10.7130 microgrid without BESS is shown in Fig. 13. It consists of P2G
Sellers(1, 5)

2.4959 63.6771 32.8470 trading, P2P trading with and without DR using the proposed
game-theoretic model, P2P without DR using the BS method

The total power procured by Prosumers 2, 3, and 4 from the [13], P2P without DR using the MMR method [13], and P2P
P2P market is 3.31, 84.43, and 43.56 kW, respectively, which without DR using the SDR method [20]. It can be observed that
satisfies the power requirement of the buying role prosumers. the total cost from P2G trading is the highest among all methods,

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



6096 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 66, NO. 8, AUGUST 2019

TABLE I
OVERALL DAILY COST OF PROSUMERS IN VARIOUS SCENARIOS/METHODS

*Indicate the prosumer with energy storage.

current policies, and legal obligations are needed before it comes
in wide applications.

VIII. CONCLUSION

In this paper, we have presented a game-theoretic model for
real-time P2P energy trading in a prosumer-based community
microgrid. A prosumer in a community involved in P2P trading

Fig. 13. Total cost of community microgrid without BESS. is either a seller or a buyer. The interaction between the sellers
and the buyers is modeled as a Stackelberg game, where sellers
are leaders and buyers are followers. The seller selection com-
petition among buyers is modeled as an evolutionary game, and

and that from P2P trading with DR using the proposed method
an iterative algorithm is proposed to reach the stable state in

is the lowest. Column 3 of Fig. 13 indicates that the total cost
a game. Also, the price competition among sellers is modeled

from the proposed method is less than the cost obtained by the
as a noncooperative game. A distributed iterative algorithm is

existing methods even if P2P trading is implemented without
used to reach the equilibrium states in a noncooperative game

DR. Furthermore, in Fig. 13, the cost of the microgrid with
and Stackelberg game. The proposed method is applied to a

DR using the proposed method can be seen significantly less
small community microgrid with PV and energy storage sys-

compared to the cost of microgrid using P2G method. The cost
tems. Simulation results show that each game converges to the

of the microgrid with DR using the proposed method is only
stable state using the proposed algorithms. Simulation results

88.13% of the cost in P2G trading. Therefore, we can say that
also show that the proposed model is effective in handling P2P

the proposed game-theoretic model is effective in handling the
energy trading in a community microgrid. The cost of the mi-

P2P trading in a prosumer-based community microgrid on a
crogrid is significantly reduced with P2P energy trading in both

daily basis.
cases: 1) with BESS; and 2) without BESS, as compared to the

The EDC of the battery is 2.45 SGD as given by (7). The
cost in conventional P2G trading. This paper can be extended by

deployment of BESS is feasible only if the cost saving due to
considering the P2P network of several community microgrids

the use of BESS is higher than the EDC. Compared to base case
as well as the stochastic nature of prosumers.

(i.e., P2G trading without BESS), Prosumers 2 and 5 can save
0.08 and 0.12 SGD, respectively, in P2G trading with BESS.
When all the prosumers in the community participate in P2P REFERENCES
trading using the proposed method without both DR and BESS,
Prosumers 2 and 5 can save 27.39 and 23.14 SGD, respectively. [1] M. V. Kirthiga, S. A. Daniel, and S. Gurunathan, “A methodology for trans-

forming an existing distribution network into a sustainable autonomous
If they participate in P2P without DR but with BESS, Prosumer micro-grid,” IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 31–41, Jan.
2 can save 25.67 SGD and Prosumer 5 can save 21.97 SGD. 2013.
It can be seen that the saving for the prosumers who installed [2] H. Kanchev, D. Lu, F. Colas, V. Lazarov, and B. Francois, “Energy man-

agement and operational planning of a microgrid with a PV-based active
BESS is higher when they participate in P2P trading without generator for smart grid applications,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 58,
BESS. This is because when they participate in the P2P market, no. 10, pp. 4583–4592, Oct. 2011.
the priority is to sell the excess energy in the P2P market. They [3] N. C. Ekneligoda and W. W. Weaver, “Game-theoretic cold-start transient

optimization in dc microgrids,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 61, no. 12,
cannot fully utilize the battery capacity. It is not necessary that pp. 6681–6690, Dec. 2014.
all the prosumers have flexible loads; so, the case without DR [4] S. Park, J. Lee, S. Bae, G. Hwang, and J. K. Choi, “Contribution-based
is chosen for analysis. This study shows that participating in energy-trading mechanism in microgrids for future smart grid: A game

theoretic approach,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 63, no. 7, pp. 4255–
P2P energy trading in a community could be an alternative to 4265, Jul. 2016.
installing the cost-intensive energy storage systems. But, the [5] R. Krishnan, M. Smith, and R. Telang, “The economics of peer-to-peer
final conclusion cannot be drawn from the single case study networks,” J. Inf. Technol. Theory Appl., vol. 5, pp. 31–44, 2003.

[6] C. Zhang, J. Wu, C. Long, and M. Cheng, “Review of existing peer-to-
because the P2P market is not matured yet. Several intensive peer energy trading projects,” Energy Procedia, vol. 105, pp. 2563–2568,
studies and modifications regarding energy trading structures, 2017.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



PAUDEL et al.: PEER-TO-PEER ENERGY TRADING IN A PROSUMER-BASED COMMUNITY MICROGRID: A GAME-THEORETIC MODEL 6097

[7] C. Long, J. Wu, C. Zhang, M. Cheng, and A. Al-Wakeel, “Feasibility Amrit Paudel (S’16) received the B.E. degree
of peer-to-peer energy trading in low voltage electrical distribution net- in electrical and electronic engineering from
works,” Energy Procedia, vol. 105, pp. 2227–2232, 2017. Pokhara University, Pokhara, Nepal in 2012, and

[8] M. R. Alam, M. St-Hilaire, and T. Kunz, “An optimal P2P energy trading the M.E. degree in energy engineering from
model for smart homes in the smart grid,” Energy Efficiency, vol. 10, Asian Institute of Technology, Bangkok, Thai-
pp. 1475–1493, 2017. land, in 2016. He is currently working toward

[9] C. Zhang, J. Wu, M. Cheng, Y. Zhou, and C. Long, “A bidding system the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering with
for peer-to-peer energy trading in a grid-connected microgrid,” Energy Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.
Procedia, vol. 103, pp. 147–152, 2016. His current research interests include micro-

[10] Y. Hong, S. Goel, and W. M. Liu, “An efficient and privacy-preserving grid energy management systems, peer-to-peer
scheme for P2P energy exchange among smart microgrids,” Int. J. Energy energy trading, game theory, and distribution
Res., vol. 40, pp. 313–331, 2016. level electricity market.

[11] J. Murkin, R. Chitchyan, and D. Ferguson, Goal-Based Automation of
Peer-to-Peer Electricity Trading. New York, NY, USA: Springer-Verlag,
2018, pp. 139–151.

[12] Y. Zhou, J. Wu, C. Long, M. Cheng, and C. Zhang, “Performance evalu-
ation of peer-to-peer energy sharing models,” Energy Procedia, vol. 143,
pp. 817–822, 2017.

[13] C. Long, J. Wu, C. Zhang, L. Thomas, M. Cheng, and N. Jenkins, “Peer-
to-peer energy trading in a community microgrid,” in Proc. IEEE Power Kalpesh Chaudhari (S’15) received the B.E.
Energy Soc. Gen. Meet., Jul. 2017, pp. 1–5. degree in electrical engineering from Sardar Pa-

[14] N. Liu, M. Cheng, X. Yu, J. Zhong, and J. Lei, “Energy sharing provider tel College of Engineering, Mumbai, India, in
for PV prosumer clusters: A hybrid approach using stochastic program- 2013. Since 2015, he has been working toward
ming and Stackelberg game,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 65, no. 8, the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering with
pp. 6740–6750, Aug. 2018. Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.

[15] J. Lee, J. Guo, J. K. Choi, and M. Zukerman, “Distributed energy trading in He is currently working as a Researcher with
microgrids: A game-theoretic model and its equilibrium analysis,” IEEE National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden,
Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 62, no. 6, pp. 3524–3533, Jun. 2015. Colorado, USA. His research interests include

[16] H. Wang, T. Huang, X. Liao, H. Abu-Rub, and G. Chen, “Reinforcement agent-based modeling, autonomous energy sys-
learning in energy trading game among smart microgrids,” IEEE Trans. tems, energy trading, and grid integration for
Ind. Electron., vol. 63, no. 8, pp. 5109–5119, Aug. 2016. electric vehicle charging stations.

[17] S. Maharjan, Q. Zhu, Y. Zhang, S. Gjessing, and T. Basar, “Depend-
able demand response management in the smart grid: A Stackelberg
game approach,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 120–132,
Mar. 2013.

[18] S. Maharjan, Q. Zhu, Y. Zhang, S. Gjessing, and T. Baar, “Demand re-
sponse management in the smart grid in a large population regime,” IEEE
Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 189–199, Jan. 2016.

[19] B. Chai, J. Chen, Z. Yang, and Y. Zhang, “Demand response management Chao Long (M’15) received the B.Sc. degree
with multiple utility companies: A two-level game approach,” IEEE Trans. in electrical engineering from Wuhan University,
Smart Grid, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 722–731, Mar. 2014. Wuhan, China in 2008, and the Ph.D. degree in

[20] N. Liu, X. Yu, C. Wang, C. Li, L. Ma, and J. Lei, “Energy-sharing model electrical engineering from Glasgow Caledonian
with price-based demand response for microgrids of peer-to-peer pro- University, Glasgow, U.K. in 2014.
sumers,” IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 32, no. 5, pp. 3569–3583, Sep. From August 2013 to May 2015 he was a
2017. Research Associate with the University of

[21] W. Tushar, C. Yuen, H. M. Rad, T. K. Saha, H. V. Poor, and K. L. Wood, Manchester, Manchester, U.K. He is presently
“Transforming energy networks via peer to peer energy trading: Potential a Research Associate with Cardiff University,
of game theoretic approaches,” IEEE Sig. Process. Mag., vol. 35, no. 4, Cardiff, U.K. His research interests include ac-
pp. 90–111, Jul. 2018. tive control and management of power distribu-

[22] C. Long, J. Wu, Y. Zhou, and N. Jenkins, “Peer-to-peer energy sharing tion networks and plug-in electric vehicles, peer to peer energy trading,
through a two-stage aggregated battery control in a community microgrid,” and blockchain technology.
Appl. Energy, vol. 226, pp. 261–276, 2018.

[23] S. X. Chen, H. B. Gooi, and M. Q. Wang, “Sizing of energy storage
for microgrids,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 142–151,
Mar. 2012.

[24] P. Samadi, A. H. Mohsenian-Rad, R. Schober, V. W. S. Wong, and J.
Jatskevich, “Optimal real-time pricing algorithm based on utility maxi-
mization for smart grid,” in Proc. IEEE 1st Int. Conf. Smart Grid Commun.,
Oct. 2010, pp. 415–420. Hoay Beng Gooi (SM’95) received the B.S.

[25] D. Niyato, E. Hossain, and Z. Han, “Dynamics of multiple-seller and degree from National Taiwan University, Taipei
multiple-buyer spectrum trading in cognitive radio networks: A game- City, Taiwan, in 1978, the M.S. degree from the
theoretic modeling approach,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 8, no. 8, University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, NB,
pp. 1009–1022, Aug. 2009. Canada, in 1980, and the Ph.D. degree from

[26] J.-J. E. Slotine, and W. Li, Applied Nonlinear Control, vol. 199, no. 1. Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA, in
Upper Saddle River, NJ, USA: Prentice-Hall, 1991. 1983, all in electrical engineering.

[27] Y. Wang, W. Saad, Z. Han, H. V. Poor, and T. Baar, “A game-theoretic He is an Associate Professor with the
approach to energy trading in the smart grid,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, School of Electrical and Electronic Engineer-
vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 1439–1450, May 2014. ing, Nanyang Technological University, Singa-

[28] Y. Zhou, J. Wu, and C. Long, “Evaluation of peer-to-peer energy sharing pore. His current research interest focuses on
mechanisms based on a multiagent simulation framework,” Appl. Energy, microgrid energy management systems dealing with storage, electricity
vol. 222, pp. 993–1022, 2018. market, and spinning reserve.

[29] “Tesla Powerwall,” Tesla, Palo Alto, CA, USA, 2018. [Online]. Available:
https://www.tesla.com/powerwall, Accessed on: Jul. 20, 2018.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Downloaded on March 30,2026 at 02:56:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.