Applied Energy 412 (2026) 127650 

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Applied Energy
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/apenergy

Smart prosumers management based on multi-agent deep reinforcement 
learning to participate in decentralized peer-to-peer market
Behzad Motallebi Azar a, Rasool Kazemzadeh a,*, Morteza Zare Oskouei a,  
Behnam Mohammadi-Ivatloo b

a Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Sahand University of Technology, Tabriz, Iran
b School of Energy Systems, LUT University, Lappeenranta, Finland

H I G H L I G H T S

• Implementing MATD3 as a concept for independent smart prosumers' management.
• Determining dynamic demand load and ESS operation to eliminate uncertain situations.
• Determining bid/ask prices of prosumers based on MMR pricing schema and MATD3.
• Developing a decentralized P2P market comprising ACDA mechanism.

A R T I C L E  I N F O A B S T R A C T

Keywords: The integration of prosumers as sustainable and decentralized units has become a fundamental aspect of smart 
Continuous double auction market energy systems. It is therefore crucial to implement a market-oriented scheduling framework that guarantees the 
Independent multi-energy system autonomous operation of prosumers while safeguarding their privacy, enhancing operational autonomy, and 
Multi-agent deep reinforcement learning promoting competitiveness in electricity markets. In this regard, this paper puts forth a prosumer-centered 
Peer-to-peer trading
Smart prosumer approach to smart prosumer operations management, with the objective of enabling their participation in 

decentralized peer-to-peer (P2P) energy markets. To address this challenge, a multi-agent twin delayed deep 
deterministic policy gradient (MATD3) algorithm with a decentralized training and execution (DTDE) strategy is 
implemented, enabling prosumers to independently manage their demand, energy storage systems (ESS), and 
bidding/asking prices. This approach determines the demand of prosumers and the quantities of energy to be 
charged/discharged by their ESS in a dynamic manner, with the objective of making robust decisions regarding 
uncertainties arising from consumption and generation. Furthermore, a novel pricing mechanism comprising the 
mid-market rate (MMR) and MATD3 is proposed for decentralized P2P transactions within an adaptive 
continuous double auction (ACDA) market. Finally, a case study of 20 residential prosumers is presented, 
collectively engaged in P2P transactions to illustrate the efficacy of the proposed framework by achieving 9.8% 
and 13.2% scheduling errors, 5.2% P2P participation, and 10% revenue increment.

Abbreviation: Expression, Definition; P2P, Peer-to-peer; DRL, Deep reinforcement learning; DER, Distributed energy resources; ESS, Energy storage systems; TD3, 
Twin delayed deep deterministic policy gradient; DTDE, Decentralized training and execution; MMR, Mid-market rate; ACDA, Adaptive continuous double auction; 
FOMDP, Fully observable Markov decision process; MAAC, Multi-actor-attention-critic; PER, Prioritized experience replay; DDPG, Deep deterministic policy gradient; 
CTDE, Centralized training and decentralized execution; CTCE, Centralized training and centralized execution; SDR, Supply-demand ratio; A3C3, Asynchronous 
advantage actor-centralized-critic with communication.

* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: r.kazemzadeh@sut.ac.ir (R. Kazemzadeh). 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2026.127650
Received 3 January 2025; Received in revised form 31 January 2026; Accepted 3 March 2026  
Available online 11 March 2026 
0306-2619/© 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

1. Introduction prosumers. The MADRL contains mean-field approximation and 
parameter sharing frameworks for enhancing scalability and establish

1.1. Background and motivation ing semi-privacy-preserving by learning from shared policy and fast 
convergence, respectively. The authors of [11] presented a multi-agent 

The transition toward more sustainable and decentralized energy deep deterministic policy gradient (MADDPG) method to address the 
systems has gained momentum in recent years [1]. Furthermore, the scalable coordinated management of P2P interactions among numerous 
growing adoption of distributed energy resources (DER) at the house heterogeneous prosumers within a community-based P2P energy mar
hold level, including rooftop photovoltaic (PV) panels and ESSs, has ket. In that study, the P2P trading platform empowered by the MMR 
fundamentally transformed the nature of the household sector, giving pricing mechanism acts as a third party, providing collective trading 
rise to the concept of the prosumer [2]. In this context, prosumers information to agents by parameter sharing extension, to mitigate non- 
possess the potential to serve as a crucial driving force in the realization stationarity in the multi-agent environment, and establish semi-privacy- 
of smart energy communities and the advancement of smart grid ap preserving either. Similarly, a MADDPG framework for P2P energy 
plications [3]. trading among prosumers within a distribution network was presented 

Conversely, the imperative for intelligent facility management rep in [12]. In this framework, the prosumer agents learn optimal trading 
resents a further significant challenge. In particular, the independent policies through the centralized training and decentralized execution 
and simultaneous operation of optimal demand/supply scheduling and (CTDE) strategy and participate in supply-demand ratio (SDR) based 
optimal management of facilities represents sophisticated issues that P2P exchanges to minimize their individual costs and satisfy network 
require appropriate approaches [4]. Traditional system-centric ap constraints by leveraging the management of their DERs.
proaches may not be well-suited for managing such complex in In [13], the authors proposed an MAAC approach for scalable and 
teractions and processes involved in prosumer management issues. non-stationary coordinated energy management and P2P transactive 
Consequently, significant attention has been devoted to the field of energy trading in a large-scale energy community consisting of 
prosumer operation studies by both academic and industrial sectors, numerous residential prosumers with diverse DERs. The proposed 
given the potential benefits these entities offer for energy communities approach leveraged the CTDE paradigm to enable joint learning by 
and smart grids. One of the principal applications of the smart grid that sharing learnable parameters among agents. This work also employed 
can fully leverage the capabilities of prosumers is the establishment of the P2P platform to incentivize prosumers' participation through MMR 
P2P energy trading markets. In addition to direct energy exchanges, P2P pricing mechanisms. Another study in [14] developed a blockchain- 
markets provide an opportunity for prosumers to capitalize on their based management and control framework driven by the DDPG algo
generation, consumption, and storage capabilities, thereby enabling rithm to effectively integrate a large number of prosumers to provide 
their participation in decentralized energy management [5]. By grid services. The main objective of this study is to maximize prosumers' 
participating in P2P markets, prosumers can not only manage their profits by encouraging them to adjust their time-varying generation/ 
energy utilization and costs but also contribute to the overall flexibility consumption via owned DERs. In [15], the authors proposed an 
and efficiency of the smart grid [6,7]. improved DDPG algorithm to optimize the operation strategy of pro

Nevertheless, the successful implementation of P2P energy trading sumers to participate in the P2P market. This study applied the cyclic 
markets is contingent upon the capacity to effectively manage the learning rate and the priority sampling mechanism to enhance the 
intricate interactions and decision-making processes inherent to pro agents' learning quality alongside the wave-attention network to 
sumer communities. In this context, the application of advanced artifi simplify the prosumers' interactions in a P2P manner. The authors of 
cial intelligence techniques, such as deep reinforcement learning (DRL), [16] developed a dynamic pricing schema for the P2P market in a 
has emerged as a promising solution to address the intricate interactions community-based microgrid. This study extended the MARL algorithm 
and decision-making processes of smart and autonomous prosumers [8]. as an open-source economic to conduct the P2P exchanges considering 
The DRL algorithm relies on the trial-and-error mechanism in its in prosumers' DER management. Similarly, in [17], the authors put forth a 
teractions with the environment to predict the agent's actions [9]. In this model-based MADRL approach, designated as asynchronous advantage 
regard, prosumers are regarded as independent agents in multi-agent actor-centralized-critic with communication (A3C3), to predict the 
DRL (MADRL) programming, capable of learning optimal policies trading prices and quantities of prosumers engaged in daily P2P trans
through interactions with their environment. By employing the MADRL, actions. This algorithm aims to address the complexities inherent in 
prosumers can adapt their energy management strategies in a dynamic multi-agent decision-making and the diverse behaviors exhibited by 
manner. This encompasses demand load scheduling, ESS operational prosumers in the context of a dynamic P2P double auction market.
planning, and the determination of bidding and asking prices in P2P The authors of [18] developed a MATD3 method for optimizing P2P 
markets. The strategies are informed by local observations and an un exchange and energy conversion policies for interconnected microgrids 
derstanding of market evolution conditions. in contexts of uncertain demand and generation. To address this chal

lenge, a two-stage process was devised, comprising an external stage 
1.2. Literature review dedicated to P2P transactions and an internal stage focused on energy 

conversion. During the external stage, microgrids engage in energy 
A wide range of research papers surrounding prosumer-centered trading through the P2P framework. This is followed by an internal stage 

problems have been published in recent years. The main priority of where the traded energy is converted based on the objectives established 
these studies relies on energy management and P2P energy trading in the external stage. The two stages operate in a coordinated manner. 
criteria, which is a projection of developing smart energy buildings. For Moreover, the authors of [19] proposed a novel mean-field TD3 
instance, in [10], the authors developed an innovative prosumer-centric (MFTD3) approach to learn the management of their DERs in stochastic 
MADRL framework for coordinated local P2P electricity trading and and uncertain scenarios, with the objective of maximizing their profit in 
flexibility services provision. This framework, so-called MAAC-PER, is a CDA-based P2P transactions. In this study, prosumer agents employed 
combination of the multi-actor-attention-critic (MAAC) and prioritized the shared policy technique within the parameter sharing framework to 
experience replay (PER) approaches, which allows agents to access the accelerate training and address the non-stationarity, scalability, and 
information of other agents during training, thereby facilitating privacy issues that arise from the multi-agent setting by utilizing mean- 
enhanced coordination and accelerating learning through the replay of field approximation.
successful experiences with greater frequency. Another study in [8] To sum up, a summary of the reviewed literature is tabulated in 
proposed a MADRL method for P2P transactions in a continuous double Table 1 for more clarity and comparison with the presented approach.
auction (CDA) market involving a significant number of multi-energy Furthermore, the proposed MADRL approach for this study is the 

2 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

Table 1 • Implementing the MATD3 algorithm with the DTDE strategy as an 
Summary of the reviewed literature. initial concept for DRL-based smart prosumers with fully indepen

Refs System info MADRL Agents' P2P dent operation in the context of the smart buildings concept.
strategy privacy level mechanism • Determining demand load and ESS charge/discharge quantities of 

Model-free, each prosumer dynamically based on the proposed MATD3 algo
Parameter 

[8,19] Prosumer- Semi-private CDA rithm to eliminate uncertain consumption and generation situations 
centric sharing in the optimal scheduling problem.
Model-free, • Determining bid/ask prices of each prosumer based on a novel 

[10,13] Prosumer- CTDE Semi-private MMR
centric approach considering the MMR pricing schema and the proposed 
Model-free, MATD3 algorithm for participating in the decentralized P2P market 

Parameter 
[11] Prosumer- sharing Semi-private MMR comprising the ACDA mechanism.

centric
Model-free, 

[12,15] Prosumer- CTDE Semi-private SDR 1.4. Paper organization
centric
Model-free, The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 pro

[14] System- BC-CTCE Fully-private Wholesale vides the proposed system model and structure details. Section 3 pre
centric
Model-free, pares the correlation of the MADRL algorithm implementation with 

Dynamic 
[16,17] Prosumer- – Semi-private different parts of the proposed system. The case study and numerical 

centric auctions
results are presented in Section 4. Finally, Section 5 provides the 

Model-free, conclusion of the presented study.
[18] System- CTDE Semi-private Wholesale

centric

This Model-free, 2. System model and structure
paper Prosumer- DTDE Fully-private ACDA

centric As illustrated in Fig. 1, the entire proposed system model and 
structure can be characterized into three correlated layers. The com
munity of prosumers layer and the P2P market layer are considered the 

MATD3 algorithm combined with the DTDE strategy, which offers physical layers, in which the consumed load, ESS operation, and bid/ask 
several advantages over existing MADRL frameworks. MATD3 helps price determination of each prosumer are managed by the MADRL vir
mitigate the overestimation bias typically found in other MADRL ap tual layer. Each one of these layers is described separately in subsections 
proaches (e.g., DDPG), leading to more conservative and realistic value for more clarification.
estimates. Moreover, MATD3 incorporates advanced techniques such as 
twin delayed policy updates, target network updates, and noise-based 2.1. Prosumer model
exploration, which enhance stability, convergence, and exploration- 
exploitation trade-offs [18]. Additionally, the decentralized nature of The proposed community of prosumers in this study comprises 20 
the learning and execution strategy improves resilience, robustness, and residential prosumers, each of which is equipped with PV panels and 
adaptability to dynamic environments. ESS. The PV generation profile Gp,t and scheduled demand load Dp,t for 

Collectively, these features enable the proposed framework to the prosumerpin the time horizon Tcan be defined as follows: 
outperform existing MADRL frameworks in terms of policy optimization, { }
convergence speed, and adaptability to uncertainties in prosumer en Gp,t = Gp,1,Gp,2,…,Gp,T , ∀p ∈ Р (1) 
ergy systems. { }

Dp,t = Dp,1,Dp,2,…,Dp,T ,∀p ∈ Р (2) 
1.3. Research gap and contribution The charge level of ESS EESS

p,t for prosumerpin time slot t is comprised 

In light of the aforementioned peer reviews and the prepared sum of charge power CESS
p,t and discharge powerGESS

p,t , which can formulated as 
mary in Table 1, several key challenges remain to be addressed. One of follows: 
these challenges is dependent on the coordinated operation of pro /

sumers with centralized training or parameter-sharing techniques, EESS
p,t = EESS

p,t− 1 + ηESSCESS
p,t Δt +GESS

p,t Δt ηESS (3) 
which may potentially compromise privacy and scalability. The imple
mentation of these types of systems may present challenges in large- 0 ≤ CESS

p,t ≤ Pch/dch
Max (4) 

scale communities or real-world projects due to the limitations of scal
ability and dimensionality that arise from the accumulation of input − Pch/dch

Max ≤ GESS
p,t ≤ 0 (5) 

data. Furthermore, the dynamic determination of demand load and the 
operation of ESSs in uncertain situations remains an open challenge. On EESS

Min ≤ EESS
p,t ≤ EESS

Max (6) 
the other hand, the characteristics of P2P trading markets depend on the 
competitive presence of prosumers. Therefore, there is a need to extend where ηESS represents the charge/discharge efficiency coefficient. In 
adaptive pricing mechanisms to activate the competition potential of ordinary programming, to avoid simultaneous charge/discharge in each 
P2P transactions. time step, a binary variable is defined as bESS

t ∈ [0,1] and utilized to find 
To address these shortcomings, this study intends to develop the [ ]

concept of smart prosumers as entities with fully independent opera the ESS charge power EESS
p,t (e.g.,EESS

p,t = EESS
p,t− 1 + bESS

t ηESSCESS
p,t +

[( ) ]
tional capabilities, enabling them to manage their operational aspects as 1 − bESS ESS S

t G E S
p,t /η ) in each period. However, in the DRL formula

well as participate in the competitive P2P market through the utilization 
of MADRL algorithms. The main contributions of this research are as tion, this procedure can be managed by each agent's single action 
follows: determination process with a bound definition action ∈ [ − 1, 1] ([− 1,0] 

for discharging and [0,1] for charging). Eqs. (4)–(6) represent system 
constraints that limit charge power, discharge power, and the charge 
level of ESS between minimum and maximum bounds, respectively.

3 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

Fig. 1. Proposed system model.

Moreover, the net electricity load constraint for each prosumer can 
be calculated as follows, which represents the margin between con Edev en

t = Econ
t +Eg

t (8) 
sumption and generation. ⎧

⎨(
λmid n Retail ev)/

ENet MMR |Ege con

p λbuy t t |+λt Ed
t Et , if Edev

t > 0
,t = Dp,t − Gp,t +CESS

p,t +GESS
p,t (7) t = (9) 

⎩ λmid dev
t , if Et ≤ 0

{
2.2. Market structure mid

λsellMMR λ , if Edev
( t > 0

t = t (10) 
λmid on ev )/

t Ec
t + λFIT

t |Ed
t | ∣Egen

t ∣, if Edev
t ≤ 0

The presented market structure in this study is a decentralized P2P 
market that runs transactions via an auction-based mechanism. There {

fore, it is necessary to adopt appropriate trading and pricing mecha where Egen ∑ Net n ∑
t = p∈Pg Ep,t and Eco

t = p∈Pc ENet
p,t , with Pg = p ∈ P : ENet

p,t ≤
} { }

nisms. In this regard, proposed approaches for trading and pricing 0 and Pc = p ∈ P : ENet
p,t > 0 are representative of the aggregated 

schemas are investigated in the following subsections. collaborative quantities for all asks and bids, respectively.

2.2.1. Trading mechanism
To perform P2P exchanges within the context of the proposed 2.3. Operating structure of MADRL model

decentralized auction-based market, this study proposes the use of the 
ACDA mechanism. 2.3.1. MADRL structure

To enhance the adaptivity among buyers and sellers, the proposed The MADRL system is modeled as a fully observable Markov decision 
ACDA mechanism is formed by combining two standard clearing algo process (FOMDP), which is a mathematical method used to model 
rithms: the matching algorithm and the clearing price algorithm. The sequential decision-making problems with discrete time steps. This 
matching algorithm is employed to align bids and asks in accordance FOMDP aims to learn an optimal policy π*(s) that maximizes the ex
with the price priority factor. In the context of this study, higher bid pected cumulative reward over time, which includes P agents indexed by 
prices or lower ask prices are accorded priority over lower bid prices or the number of prosumers (i.e., P = {p
higher ask prices. In the event of identical prices, the number of pro 1,…, pP}). This process can be 

formulated with a set of states {S
sumers is considered a priority. This algorithm guarantees that the 1:P} that the agent can encounter in the 

environment, a set of actions {A
trading price reflects the most competitive bids and asks in the market. 1:P} that the agent can take in a given 

observation space, the reward functions {ℜ
Subsequently, the clearing price algorithm is employed to calculate the 1:P} received by the agent for 
P2P trading price based on the intersection of bid and ask prices. taking action a in the state s, and the state transition function τ(s, a→ś ), 

This hybrid algorithm can improve efficiency and fairness in iden which defines the probability of transitioning from state s to state ś  after 
tifying potential matches, promote flexibility in determining the trans taking action a. At each time step t, each prosumer agent takes action 
action price and quantity, and represent a realistic essence of market ap,tbased on its own current state sp,t and learned policy, and then ex
transaction dynamics. tracts an immediate reward rn,t. Then, the environment moves to the 

( ⃒
next state st+1via the transition function st ⃒

+1 = τ st , a1:P,t ,ωt) and the 
2.2.2. Pricing mechanism environment stochasticity ωt [20]. The aim of each agent p is to learn the 

In this study, the advantages of the MMR pricing mechanism are policy πp,t that can maximize its own total expected cumulative dis
utilized to catch bid/ask prices. The MMR pricing schema is an accu counted reward over time as brought in Eq. (11): 
mulative approach to generate P2P market prices (one for buyers and [ ]

∑ ( )
one for sellers) considering the average value of the feed-in-tariff (FIT) ℜp = Es∼τ,a1∼π1 ,…,ap∼πp γtrp,t st , ap,1,…, ap,t (11) 
price λFIT etail t∈T

t and retail price λRetail ( FIT )
t (λmid

t = λt + λR
t /2) along with all 

prosumers' demand/supply deviation Edev
t at the same time period as a where γ ∈ [0,1) is the discounted factor. To solve the proposed FOMDP 

weighted coefficient. In this regard, the MMR buy price λbuyMMR
t and the considering the MADRL algorithm, the Twin Delayed Deep Determin

MMR sell price λsellMMR
t can be formulated as follows [10]: istic Policy Gradient (TD3) algorithm is employed, which is a model-free 

4 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

and off-policy algorithm. This algorithm is a variant of the DDPG states, actions, and rewards of all other agents. This allows agents to 
method designed explicitly for continuous action spaces [21]. In the leverage additional information to learn or update a joint policy. 
MATD3 algorithm developed for this study, the agent's decision-making However, during the execution phase, agents act independently 
process is governed by two neural networks: the actor and the critic. The based solely on their local observations. Consequently, each agent 
actor network takes the current state as input and extracts a single implements only its local observation to make decisions during 
continuous action value, representing the agent's action in the envi execution. Finally, agents execute their learned policies indepen
ronment. In contrast, the critic network is responsible for estimating the dently, without communicating with other agents. The CTDE 
value function (Q-value) for a given state-action pair. This involves approach is a valuable tool in contexts where agents must collaborate 
evaluating the quality of the chosen action by estimating the expected during execution but are unable to exchange information due to 
future reward. In addition, TD3 employs two separate critic networks, communication limitations or other practical considerations. 
referred to as the “Twin Critics”. The minimum of these two critic out Furthermore, CTDE continues to face challenges related to dimen
puts is then employed as the target for updating the other critic network, sionality and scalability, particularly in contexts where agent 
thereby ensuring a more conservative and realistic value estimation and numbers are increasing and privacy concerns are not adequately 
mitigating the overestimation bias inherent in traditional Q-learning addressed. In light of these limitations, this paradigm offers a 
methods. Moreover, TD3 incorporates delayed policy updates, whereby compelling approach in multi-agent energy transaction systems 
the critic networks are updated more frequently than the actor network. where agents' information is not proprietary and a third party is 
TD3 also incorporates target network updates, whereby separate target available to collect or aggregate it. This is particularly relevant in 
networks are utilized for computing the target values and updated MADRL-based systems where the objective is to develop a unified 
slowly by a soft update rule. These mechanisms facilitate enhanced policy for all agents.
stability and convergence. c) Parameter sharing: In the parameter sharing paradigm, all agents 

During the training phase, the agents interact with the environment, have the capacity to leverage the experiences of other agents during 
collect the relevant transitions (i.e., state, action, reward, next state, and training by sharing a subset of their neural network parameters, 
done), and store them in the replay buffer. Subsequently, random min thereby enhancing the learning performance. Additionally, each 
ibatches of transitions are sampled from the replay buffer for the pur agent retains its own copy of the policy/value network, with select 
pose of updating the actor and critic networks. The actor network is layers being shared across agents. This shared component is 
updated by maximizing the output of the critic network, taking into responsible for learning a generalized representation based on the 
account the actions generated by the actor network. In turn, the critic collective experience of all agents. The primary benefit of parameter 
networks are updated by sampled transitions and target values sharing is the acceleration of training through the sharing of expe
computed from the target actor and critic networks. Subsequently, a soft riences while maintaining decentralized execution. However, this 
update of the target actor and critic networks is performed using the approach is still subject to the dimensionality issues that arise from 
main actor and critic networks. The replay buffer facilitates experience the incorporation of observations and actions from all agents in order 
replay, a technique that enhances data efficiency and de-correlates the to estimate the Q-value function. Furthermore, this strategy may also 
samples, thereby promoting more stable learning. violate the privacy of agents. In light of these considerations, this 

In the developed TD3, the exploration process is modified through strategy can be advantageous in multi-agent energy trading systems 
the introduction of Gaussian noise into the action space. The noise level where coordination between agents is necessary or where there is a 
is initially set to a high value and subsequently decays over time, thereby need for coordinated operation, similar to the approach taken in the 
promoting exploration during the initial stages of the learning process CTDE approach.
and exploitation during the subsequent stages. d) Decentralized training with decentralized execution (DTDE): In the 

DTDE approach, both the training and execution phases are con
2.3.2. Strategies of MADRL algorithm ducted by each agent in an independent manner. This implies that 

In addition to the structural algorithm of MATD3, selecting an each agent monitors its own state and executes actions based on its 
appropriate strategy for multi-agent system learning is a crucial aspect unique experience (learned policy), without exchanging information 
that warrants particular attention. Regarding this matter, there are four with other agents. The DTDE approach is advantageous for systems 
strategies for MADRL algorithms, classified according to their training with fully independent operations where coordination or commu
and execution [22], which are as follows: nication between agents is not a consideration and the primary 

objective is to preserve privacy. Furthermore, this paradigm facili
a) Centralized training and centralized execution (CTCE): This paradigm tates heterogeneous policy learning, which is advantageous in cases 

involves both training and execution in a centralized manner. In where agents have disparate reward structures or seek to satisfy 
CTCE, the aim is to train a joint model containing all agents' obser disparate personal preferences. In light of these considerations, this 
vations (states) and actions with a centralized trainer. This central approach represents the optimal strategy for fully decentralized 
ized trainer learns a centralized policy (or value function) and takes multi-agent energy transaction systems, wherein each agent operates 
actions for all agents simultaneously. The CTCE paradigm is appli independently, assuming responsibility for its own training and 
cable when agents are capable of communicating and sharing in execution based on individual datasets.
formation during the execution phase, and the issue of agent privacy 
is not a concern. In particular, this procedure requires significant In alignment with the aforementioned strategies, this paper is 
scalability and dimensionality due to the exponential growth in the intended to utilize the DTDE approach as a convenient decentralized and 
observation and action spaces with the increase in agent numbers. independent paradigm for the proposed system. In this approach, pri
Given these considerations, this strategy is not well-suited for use in vacy is inherently preserved through the use of training and execution in 
real-world and decentralized multi-agent systems where information decentralized manners. Under DTDE, each prosumer agent operates 
security is of paramount importance and agents require rapid independently by processing its own data and learning its optimal policy 
responses. in a local manner without sharing raw data with other agents. This local 

b) Centralized training with decentralized execution (CTDE): The CTDE processing and learning ensure that sensitive information does not leave 
approach represents an additional strategy for the MADRL frame the individual prosumer's environment, thus eliminating the risks 
work, wherein agents are trained in a centralized manner but execute associated with centralized data aggregation, including data breaches 
their policies in a decentralized way. During the training phase, and unauthorized access.
agents have access to the full range of information, including the Moreover, the proposed MATD3 algorithm with the DTDE strategy 

5 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

exhibits scalability advantages compared to centralized training ap determination stage, where the action space defines the bid and ask 
proaches and parameter-sharing techniques. As each prosumer agent prices for P2P transactions. Accordingly, the action vector in each stage 
operates independently, the computational complexity scales linearly directly corresponds to the control variables of that environment, 
with the number of agents, rather than exponentially. This advantage ensuring each environment has its own TD3 agent that maps actions 
becomes increasingly significant as the number of prosumers grows. It directly to feasible operational decisions. Comprehensive explanations 
meant that the agents could operate autonomously without relying on a regarding the details of these procedures are provided in the upcoming 
centralized coordinator or shared parameters, making the approach section.
reliable and flexible to changes in the number of prosumers.

Also, in order to be more concrete regarding the provided explana 3. Agents training and P2P market implementation
tions of the proposed MATD3 algorithm structure and strategy, Algo
rithm 1 is set up for more clarification.  This section is dedicated to the supplementary details (illustrated in 

Fig. 1) of the proposed system objectives based on the proposed MATD3 

learning mechanism. Given that each prosumer is regarded as an 
Note: In the proposed MATD3 training process, convergence is autonomous entity with DTDE, this study aims to employ FOMDP in 

assessed in practice by monitoring the stability of the average episodic conjunction with rule-based training environments to model the oper
reward. Training proceeds until the predefined maximum number of ational behavior of smart prosumers in uncertain scenarios, enabling 
episodes (M) is reached, at which point the moving average of rewards their participation in the P2P market. The subsequent subsections are 
has stabilized and no longer exhibits significant upward or downward presented to elucidate the intricacies of the modeling process in greater 
trends. This behavior indicates that policy updates have diminished and detail.
the learned policy has effectively converged to a stable solution.

Furthermore, it must be noted that Algorithm 1 represents the 3.1. Demand and ESS scheduling
generic TD3 training loop. In the proposed framework, this algorithm is 
applied separately in two distinct environments: (i) demand and ESS As the first step in the agent training process, each prosumer agent is 
scheduling stage, where the action space covers demand load scheduling responsible for learning its own demand load and ESS charge/discharge 
and ESS charging/discharging operations, and (ii) bid/ask price operation based on FOMDP as a dual action problem. The specific 

6 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

components of each prosumer that must be learned to achieve this are sD,ESS
p,t+1 , which is influenced by the current state sD,ESS

p,t , actions aD,ESS
1:P,t , and 

outlined as follows: environment randomness ωD,ESS
p,t factors.

3.1.1. Observation In the proposed framework, the employed state transition method is 
The observation (state) space of demand and ESS scheduling at the based on the random selection process to extract transition functions for 

{ } demand load and ESS charge/discharge from historical data. The 
time step t sD,ESS

1,t , sD.ESS
2,t ,…, sD,ESS

P,t for all prosumer agents P can be random selection of the subsequent state ensures that the learning 
defined as follows: process is not deterministic but stochastic, and is not contingent on 

{ } precise probability distributions for disparate uncertainties [8]. In other 
sD,ESS
p,t = t,PCon

p,t ,E
PV
p,t , λ

Net
t ,ℝESS

p,t ,ℂ
SOC
p,t ∈ SP (12) words, the “random selection process” means that at each training 

episode, the state variables (e.g., demand load, PV generation) are 
where PCon

p,t is consumption data, EPV
p,t is prosumers' PV generation data, drawn from the historical dataset using random sampling with 

λNet replacement. Each historical record (demand, PV generation, and asso
t is the net price (which consists of both FIT price λFIT

t and retail price 
λRetail

t ), ℝESS
t is operational rules for ESS to confront uncertain situations, ciated variables at a specific timestamp) is sampled as a complete unit, 

ensuring that the natural correlation between demand and PV is fully 
and ℂSOC

p,t is the ESS charge level condition in the previous time step. preserved. Sampling is not restricted to any specific hour range, season, 
In the proposed model, ℝESS

t is not a physical control variable but a or type of day; instead, every historical observation has an equal prob
discrete auxiliary feature added to the state space. This feature is ability of being selected at every time step. This method preserves the 
generated through rule-based logic that evaluates the electricity price empirical distribution of the real data while avoiding deterministic 
and the current charge state, producing a categorical value repetition, thereby ensuring variability and robustness in the agent's 
ℝESS

t ∈ [ − 1, 0,1], where − 1 denotes a discharge-favorable condition, learning process. This process enables agents to learn robust policies in 
0 represents a neutral or idle condition, and + 1 indicates a charge- stochastic scenarios and account for uncertainties in consumption and 
favorable condition. This encoded rule provides the agent with a heu generation patterns.
ristic indication of desirable ESS behavior under uncertain conditions. 
Furthermore, ℂSOC

p,t conveys the charge state of ESS at time t-1 within the 3.1.4. Reward
[− 1,1] interval as a normalized indicator. This variable is also included In this stage, each agentptakes action aD,ESS

p,t at the state sD,ESS
p,t and 

in the state space to allow the agent to retain short-term memory of receives its immediate reward rD,ESS
p,t ∈ ℜ at the end of the time step t. In 

recent ESS conditions. Accordingly, both ℝESS
t and ℂSOC

p,t are informa the proposed model, the immediate reward for demand and ESS 
tional state variables rather than continuous decision variables and scheduling contains three minimization functions as follows: 
therefore do not require continuous operating bounds. ( )2

rD
p,t = − Dp,t − PCon Net

p,t × λt (16) 
3.1.2. Action

The action aD,ESS
p,t for the prosumer agent p at the time step t consists of rESS )/

p,t = − Ech,dch ( Net Net
p,t × λt − λ Net

Avr λAvr (17) 
employed scheduling decisions for managing each prosumer demand 
load and ESS charge/discharge that can be written as follows: ⃒ ⃒

rDeg ⃒
p,t = − ⃒Ech,dch⃒ Deg

[ ] p,t ⃒× λ (18) 
aD,ESS

p,t = aD
p,t , a

ESS
p,t ∈ AP (13) 

where in (16), rD
p,t is the demand load scheduling reward and PCon

p,t is the 
In (14), Dmax represents the maximum allowable demand load which test case consumption. The subtraction between learned demand and 

is determined based on each prosumer's historical consumption data and test case consumption in the reward function leads to minimal demand 
serves as an upper bound (i.e., peak consumption value) in the action 
space aD

p,t ∈ [0,1] for scheduling demand load Dp,t. Moreover, aESS load fluctuations during the training phase. In other words, the squared 
p,t ∈ [ − deviation term penalises divergence between the scheduled and histor

1, 1] is the secondary action quantity that indicates the rate of charging ical demand, ensuring that learned load adjustments remain realistic. 
(positive) and discharging (negative) power of ESS by (15) besides Moreover, the coefficient λNet

t serves as a weighting factor that reflects 
avoiding simultaneous charge and discharge. the net electricity price ($/kWh), thereby assigning an economic inter
Dp,t = aD

p,t ×Dmax (14) pretation to this penalty. Including this multiplier standardises the 
formulation with other reward components (e.g., ESS operation) and 

( ) ( ) /
Ech,dch

p,t = max 0, aESS ESS ch,dch
p,t × η PMax +min aESS ch,dch

p,t ,0 ×P ESS
Max η (15) ensures comparability of magnitudes across decision variables. In (17), 

rESS
p,t is the ESS scheduling reward which is directly affected by the net 

It should be noted that the ESS actions are applied only after electricity price.λNet ∑
Avr = t∈TλNet

t /T is the average net electricity price of 
checking their feasibility with respect to the ESS energy limits defined in the whole test day. Furthermore, another reward function is introduced 
(4)–(6). If the ESS's previous energy level EESS

p,t− 1 is close toEESS
Max, only the in (18) as the ESS degradation penalty rDeg

p,t to avoid any redundant charge 
remaining capacity is allowed to be charged, and the applied charging and discharge.λDegis also the penalty cost for each kWh charge/discharge 
power is automatically reduced to avoid exceeding the limit. If EESS

p,t− 1 is power. Thus, the total reward function of demand and ESS scheduling 
equal to EESS

Max, any charging request is rejected and the ESS can only for each prosumer agent p at the time step t can be implied as follows: 
remain idle. Conversely, when EESS

p,t− 1 is close to EESS
Min, only the feasible 

rD,ESS
p,t = rD

p,t + rESS
p,t + rDeg

p,t ,∀p ∈ P, ∀t ∈ T (19) 
portion of the discharge request is applied. Subsequently, if EESS

p,t− 1 = EESS
Min, 

all discharge requests are rejected and the ESS can only stay idle. This It must be noted that this reward function is designed to capture the 
mechanism guarantees that the updated charge level Ech,dch objectives of demand load scheduling and ESS operation as a cost- 

p,t remains 
strictly within its physical bounds and prevents any over-charging or minimization function. The demand load scheduling reward encour
over-discharging during the learning process. ages the agent to minimize deviations from the desired optimal con

sumption profile, while the ESS scheduling reward incentivizes the 
3.1.3. State transition agent to charge the ESS in low electricity price periods and discharge it 

The state transition indicates the probability of moving from sD,ESS
p,t to in high electricity price periods due to the signals received from 

7 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

inequality expression of the electricity price. Besides, the ESS degrada tendency relative to the community. Specifically, the rule leverages the 
tion penalty discourages excessive charging and discharging to prolong prosumer's net balance (its surplus or deficit) compared to the mean 
the ESS lifespan. community balance at that hour, as well as the overall system surplus/ 

To have a better understanding of the demand and ESS scheduling, deficit (denoted by Edev
t ). On this basis, the indicator takes values in the 

the whole procedure is described in algorithmic form, as Algorithm 2. interval ℝprice
p,t ∈ [ − 1, 1], where values in the range [− 1,0] correspond to 

3.2. Bid/ask Price determination seller-oriented conditions, values in [0,1] correspond to buyer-oriented 
conditions, and intermediate values near 0 represent neutral or marginal 

The second stage of the agent training process concerns the deter participants.
mination of bid/ask prices based on the proposed FOMDP as a single The embedded economic logic is as follows. Small sellers (i.e., pro
action problem. As in the preceding subsection, the components of each sumers with limited surplus compared to others) are encouraged to offer 
prosumer that determine the bid/ask prices are described as follows: at slightly lower ask prices to increase their feasibility of primitive 

clearing in the ACDA process. Conversely, large buyers (i.e., prosumers 
3.2.1. Observation with substantial deficits) are encouraged to bid at slightly higher prices 

To improve and simplify the training process, the observation space to improve their chances of securing energy. Small random perturba
of the second step is rewritten as follows: tions within narrow bounds are added to each rule-based value to avoid 

{ } deterministic behavior and promote exploration while maintaining 
sBid,Ask
p,t = t,ENet

p,t , λbuyMMR
t , λsellMMR

t , λNet
t ,ℝprice

p,t ∈ SP (20) economic rationality. This rule-based state, therefore, provides the agent 
with a structured and interpretable price-preference signal while still 

where ENet
p,t is the electricity net load value (bid/ask quantity) of each allowing the MATD3 policy to learn optimal pricing strategies through 

prosumer (positive values are bid mode and negative values denote ask experience.
mode), and is utilized to decrease the state space rather than bringing 
generation and consumption elements. λbuyMMR

t and λsellMMR
t are obtained 3.2.2. Action

buy and sell MMR prices calculated by (9)–(10), respectively. MMR data In this step, the agent takes action aBid,Ask
p,t ∈ AP based on the current 

is set on the net price historical data λNet
t . ℝprice

p,t is also operational rules state sBid,Ask
p,t , which aBid,Ask

p,t ∈ [ − 1,1] represents the bid price (positive) 
for bid/ask price determination to guarantee competitiveness in P2P and ask price(negative) values of each prosumer p at the time step t. In 
participation. This rule-based indicator is also incorporated to embed this regard, the bid/ask price PrBid,Ask

p,t can be determined as follows: 
fundamental market behavior directly into the agent's state represen
tation. This indicator reflects each prosumer's local supply/demand 

8 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

Table 2 Table 3 
Hyperparameters of each prosumer agent training. Parametric information of facilities.

Hyperparameter Value Hyperparameter Value Parameter Value Parameter Value

Episodes number 50,000 Time steps number 24 EESS
Cap 2 kWh Pch/dch

Max 0.45 kW
Actor learning rate 0.003 Critic learning rate 0.001 EESS
Discount factor 0.99 Batch size 512 Max 1.8 kWh ηESS 0.98

EESS
Min 0.3 kWh PPV

t (capacity per panel) 120 W
Buffer size 20,000 Soft update rate (τ) 0.005
Num. hidden layers 2*128 nodes Optimizer Adam
Action noise Gaussian noise Policy MLP-Policy

mization (or revenue maximization) function comprising two distinct 
equations, one for bid price, i.e., (23) and the other for ask price, i.e., 

[ ( ) ( / ) ]
PrBid,Ask i ,

p,t = max 0, aB d Ask buyMMR
p,t × λ Net

t E Ne
r E t (24). The function is expressed as follows: 

p,Av p,t
[ ( ) ( / )]

+ min aBid,Ask
p,t , 0 × λsellMMR Net

t E ENet rBid,Ask
p,t p,Avr (21) p,t = rBid

p,t + rAsk
p,t ,∀p ∈ P, ∀t ∈ T,ENet

p,t ∕= 0 (22) 

( )2
where ENet ∑ Net

p,Avr = t∈TEp,t /T is the average net electricity load for each rBid
p,t = − PrBid,Ask

p,t − λbuyMMR
t ×ENet

p,t ,∀ENet
p,t > 0 (23) 

prosumer in the whole test day. In (21), the first term calculates the bid 
price and the second term calculates the ask price. Additionally, the ( )2

rAsk
rationale behind the coefficients ENet

p,Avr/ENet
p,t and ENet

p,t /ENet
p,Avr in calculating p,t = − PrBid,Ask

p,t + λsellMMR
t × ENet

p,t ,∀ENet
p,t < 0 (24) 

bid and ask prices is based on the premise that smaller buyers are subject The bid price determination process is influenced by two key factors, 
to higher prices than larger buyers, and conversely, smaller sellers are as elucidated in (23). These factors are bid quantities and buy MMR 
subject to lower prices than larger sellers. prices, which are highly correlated. Consequently, an increase in bid 

quantities results in a decrease in bid prices, while a decrease in bid 
3.2.3. State transition quantities leads to an increase in bid prices. It is imperative to note that 

Similar to the previous subsection (i.e., 3.1.3), the state transition in the determined bid price should not exceed the buy MMR price limit to 
bid/ask prices determination contains the probability of moving from ensure that peers engage in competitive participation. A similar ratio
sBid,Ask
p,t to sBid,Ask

p,t+1 by considering factors that have been explained earlier nale underlies the analysis in (24), where the optimal ask price is 
regarding the random selection process. In this stage, transition func determined by considering these two factors. This indicates that ask 
tions of bid/ask prices are extracted from predefined datasets for MMR prices should not be set below the sell MMR prices, and ask quantities 
prices and net loads. also influence the determination of ask prices.

To gain a clear understanding of the bid/ask price determination 
3.2.4. Reward manner, this process is described in Algorithm 3.

The reward for bid/ask price determination rBid,Ask
p,t is a cost mini

9 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

3.3. Market transactions configuration preserves realism while ensuring a consistent comparison 
framework for evaluating the proposed MATD3-based scheduling and 

This section is intended to provide a detailed account of the P2P P2P trading strategy. Moreover, the selected test case sample for this 
market implementation, based on the proposed structure outlined in study constitutes 10% of the datasets, with the remaining datasets 
Section 2.2. As previously stated, this market is a decentralized P2P employed for the training process.
market that employs an innovative ACDA mechanism. In order to The MATD3 algorithm used for training the actor and critic networks 
facilitate the execution of P2P transactions, the market maker initially employed several hyperparameters, including the learning rate, dis
collates the data pertaining to the participation of all prosumers. Sub count factor, batch size, replay buffer size, exploration noise parameters, 
sequently, the data is sorted into bids and asks based on the matching and the soft update rate (τ), all of which are listed in Table 2. The se
algorithm and the bid/ask price priority mechanism, whereby the lection of these hyperparameters follows common empirical practices 
highest price bids are matched with the lowest price asks. Afterward, widely adopted in actor–critic-based frameworks. For instance, the soft 
P2P exchanges are conducted between any buyer and seller pair based update rate (τ) was set to 0.005. This choice aligns with standard TD3/ 
on the sorted list. The P2P exchange price is then calculated through the MATD3 literature [21], where small values (typically 0.001–0.01) 
clearing algorithm by the intersection of bid and ask prices. In the event ensure stable target network updates without causing oscillations. In 
that any buyer or seller remains unsatisfied after P2P transactions, a preliminary tests, τ = 0.005 provided a competent balance between 
centralized retail market is considered to clear them with retail market stability and responsiveness, enabling smooth convergence of both actor 
prices. The aforementioned procedure of market transactions is pre and critic networks. All other selected hyperparameters also follow 
sented in Algorithm 4 for further clarification. standard practices in several TD3/MATD3-based studies, and empirical 

testing confirmed that small deviations from these values do not mate

4. Case study and numerical results rially affect convergence behavior or final performance.
In addition, the parametric data for PV panels and ESSs are presented 

4.1. Hyperparameters in Table 3. The MATD3 method has been programmed in Python using 
PyTorch [26], and the entire process has been executed on a PC with a 

The input hyperparameters utilized by intelligent prosumers are 4.20 GHz Intel(R) Core (TM) i7-7700K CPU and 16 GB of RAM. Addi
derived from authentic real-world datasets, which encompass one year's tionally, it must be noted that the whole MATD3 training process took 
worth of data from 20 residential buildings. The datasets comprise approximately 38–42 min for each prosumer agent in step 1 and 23–25 
profiles of electricity consumption [23] and PV generation between min for each prosumer agent in step 2, altogether approximately 13 h for 
January 1 and December 31, 2015 [24]. Also, a modified version of the step 1 and 8 h for step 2. Furthermore, the execution time taken for all 
net prices profile [25] is considered, which is regulated in accordance prosumer agents is around 0.8–2.1 s.
with the employed consumption load pattern. All prosumers used in this 
case study are taken from real residential consumption datasets from 
California, which represent typical household demand patterns with 4.2. Agents training performance analysis
natural variability in daily load magnitudes and profiles. PV generation 
data were also obtained from real measurements, and each prosumer's This subsection presents a convergence and performance analysis of 
PV capacity is assigned by scaling the number of panels in proportion to the proposed MATD3 algorithm for the training of prosumer agents. 
its demand level, reflecting practical household installation behavior. A Fig. 2 depicts the cumulative episodic rewards (of the community of 
uniform ESS capacity of 2 kWh was assumed for all prosumers, consis prosumers) over 50,000 episodes. The red and blue lines represent the 
tent with the lower range of commercially available residential batteries episode rewards and mean-episode rewards (every 100 episodes), 
(2–4 kWh) and widely used in household-scale studies. This respectively. Moreover, the convergence values of all prosumers 

extracted from the DTDE strategy in both steps (i.e., Sections 3.1 and 

10 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

smooth and stationary. This behavior indicates that reward variance 
does not increase over training and confirms the stability of the learned 
policies in both training stages. The rationale for training agents over 
50,000 episodes is that DTDE-based MATD3 requires more training 
space due to its high variance in learning and the necessity for policy 
adjustments on an individual basis. However, this strategy also results in 
more robust policy learning.

To ensure the robustness and consistency of the proposed MATD3- 
based framework, multiple independent runs (containing 10 runs) 
with different random seeds are performed and key statistical metrics 
are computed. These key statistical metrics include mean absolute per
centage error (MAPE), mean standard deviation (MSD), variance, and 
95% confidence intervals (CI95). MAPE is usually utilized to quantify 
the average scheduling accuracy and indicate whether learned sched
uling closely follows the historical consumption trends. Standard devi
ation measures the dispersion or spread of the scheduled values across 
different runs and is valuable for understanding the variability and 
consistency of scheduled quantities. On this basis, MSD is the average 
performance across multiple training runs. Variance is the square of the 
standard deviation and represents the overall variability and fluctuation 
of the scheduled values.CI95 offers insights into the uncertainty asso
ciated with the estimated mean scheduling and aids in assessing the 
statistical significance of the results. These statistical analysis results are 
tabulated in Table 5.

The statistical measures of Stage 1 indicate a relatively low MAPE of 
9.8%, with an APE range between 8.3% to 12.1%. The main reason 
behind the +10% APEs originates from the massive variation in the 
yearly consumption pattern of some prosumers' datasets. This issue 
causes the agents to look for more robust responses to eliminate the 
uncertain factors that lead to higher APE. The SD of errors varies be

Fig. 2. Cumulative episodic rewards of prosumer 1. tween 11% and 27%, and the MSD is 17.4%. A variance of 3.07% and a 
narrow CI95 from 0.496 to 0.662 pu suggest that the model achieves 
consistent and robust performance in the stage 1 scheduling task. 

Table 4 Finally, these results demonstrate that the proposed MATD3-based 
Convergence information of trained agents. framework can reliably schedule electrical demand and ESS operation 

Prosumer Converged Reward Prosumer Converged Reward with minimal deviation from the historical consumption data.
Num Values Num Values In Stage 2, the MAPE is at 13.2%, with an APE range from 11.8% to 

Step 1 Step 2 Step 1 Step 2 15.1%. These elevated metrics, when contrasted with those observed in 
Stage 1, emanate from the intricacies inherent in accurately ascertaining 

P1 0.0055 − 0.0008 P11 0.0065 − 0.008
P2 0.0071 − 0.0019 P12 0.0076 − 0.0017 bid/ask prices, compounded by the presence of non-homogeneous ele
P3 0.0059 − 0.0006 P13 0.0067 − 0.0014 ments such as prosumers' net load and MMR prices. Subsequently, the 
P4 0.007 − 0.0009 P14 0.0073 − 0.0007 SD range (14%–30%), MSD of 20.3%, and variance of 3.91% indicate 
P5 0.0071 − 0.0008 P15 0.0052 − 0.0022 slightly greater variability in the model's performance when deter
P6 0.0056 − 0.0011 P16 0.0068 − 0.0021 mining bid/ask prices. However, the confidence interval ranging from 
P7 0.0051 − 0.0012 P17 0.0051 − 0.0012
P8 0.0069 − 0.0008 P18 0.0063 − 0.0016 0.403 to 0.512 pu reflects a narrow interval, thereby substantiating the 
P9 0.0077 − 0.0013 P19 0.0062 − 0.0007 robustness of these stage results. Consequently, it can be concluded that 
P10 0.0075 − 0.0006 P20 0.0072 − 0.0008 the outcomes are commensurate with acceptable limits, given the 

intrinsic volatility inherent to bid/ask price determination.

3.2) are presented in Table 4. In this table, Step 1 values refer to the final 
converged cumulative reward obtained by each prosumer in the first- 4.3. Test case performance analysis and market results
stage environment (i.e., demand load scheduling and ESS operation), 
while Step 2 values denote the final converged cumulative reward To validate the performance analysis of the MATD3 method, the 
achieved in the second-stage environment (i.e., bid/ask price determi obtained results were investigated on the test day. Fig. 3 illustrates the 
nation). As illustrated in Fig. 2 and Table 4, both cases exhibit minimal net load of the community of prosumers trained by the proposed algo
values during the initial learning stages. The primary cause of this rithm. These outputs are determined based on the learned demand and 
phenomenon can be attributed to the definition of the initial random ESS scheduling of individual prosumers and then cumulated as the 
steps, which have been set to 1000 episodes. During this process, the 
agents engage in exhaustive exploration of the action space by taking Table 5 
random actions. Although these initial random steps result in consid Statistical analysis results of the proposed framework.
erable inconsistency in the agents' gained rewards at the outset of the Stage APE range MAPE SD MSD Variance CI95 (pu)
training process, they facilitate effective policy learning and prevent range
early overfitting to initial policies. As the agents gain more experience, Stage 8.3%– 9.8% 11%– 
the values increase and then converge to specific quantities. After 17.4% 3.07% 0.496–0.662

1 12.1% 27%
convergence, the episodic rewards exhibit bounded oscillations around Stage 11.8%- 13.2% 14%– 20.3% 3.91% 0.403–0.512
a steady mean value, while the moving-average reward curves remain 2 15.1% 30%

11 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

Fig. 3. Community of prosumers' net load on the test day.

Fig. 4. Generated MMR price on the test day.

Fig. 5. Determined ask prices of prosumers 2 and 8 on the test day.

12 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

community of prosumers' demand/supply deviation (illustrated by the seller, resulting in multiple transactions within the same time interval. 
blue-colored curve). As illustrated in Fig. 3, positive values are associ Subsequently, the same process happens for the seller with surplus 
ated with the consumption side, while negative values pertain to the generation. In this case, P1 still has unmet demand after the first match. 
generation side. In light of the aforementioned considerations, it can be So, ACDA proceeds to match P1 with the next available seller (i.e., P6), 
posited that hours 7–10 and 13–17 may be considered active periods for thereby producing multiple bilateral trades within the same hour. 
P2P exchanges, given the presence of prosumers with both generation Moreover, the P2P clearing price for each match is determined accord
and consumption capabilities. During the first three hours, the con ing to the ACDA pricing rule, based on the intersection of the buyer's bid 
sumption side was subjected to a considerable consumption rate due to price and the seller's ask price (expressed in $/kWh).
the operation of the ESS. The primary factors contributing to this sub Figs. 8 and 9 illustrate the cumulative P2P exchange costs and net 
stantial consumption are the daily price and the level of ESS charge. clearing costs of each prosumer over the course of the test day, respec
During hours 10–14, the PV panels are operating at their maximum tively. Accordingly, the most active participants in the ACDA market as 
generation capacity, allowing the community to act as a local supplier. sellers are identified as prosumers 2, 8, and 15. Conversely, on the test 
After hour 16, the consumption rate of prosumers undergoes a notable day, prosumers 1, 4, 5, and 10 were the largest purchasers in the ACDA. 
increase, which can be attributed to the absence of PV production and Moreover, the net purchasing quantities are the greatest for prosumers 3 
the depletion of ESS charge levels. This data is then employed in the and 10, while the net sold quantities are the greatest for prosumers 9, 13, 
determination of MMR prices, as illustrated in Fig. 4. As previously and 16. In light of the aforementioned findings, it can be concluded that 
discussed, net FIT/retail prices and demand/supply deviations represent the community of prosumers in question requires a total of 207.8 kW of 
the primary factors in MMR calculations. electricity on the test day. A total of 10.75 kW was fulfilled by P2P 

The MMR prices serve as the basis for the determination of the bid/ transactions, representing 5.2% of the daily electricity requirements. 
ask price. For purposes of clarification, Figs. 5 and 6 are presented as While this share may appear modest, it is well justified by the archi
illustrative examples of active prosumers, demonstrating the bid/ask tecture of the modeled system. The primary reasons behind this partic
prices learned through the MATD3 approach. The figures illustrate the ipation level are aligned with two factors:
details of the ask prices (Fig. 5) of prosumers 2 and 8, who are the most First, all of the prosumers are households equipped with identical 
active sellers, and the bid prices (Fig. 6) of prosumers 4 and 5, who are ESS capacity and PV panels sized in proportion to their consumption. 
the most active purchasers, in the P2P ACDA market. Additionally, the This design results in similar generation and consumption patterns 
periods during which each prosumer sold or purchased are indicated by across the community. Such homogeneity restricts the occurrence of 
bolded dots. complementary supply/demand pairs, thereby narrowing the temporal 

In the P2P transaction phase, the highest rate of P2P trades in the overlap for effective P2P transactions. Second, the MATD3 learning 
proposed ACDA market is observed in hours 8, 10, 14, and 16, as process drives agents to adopt rational, risk-sensitive behaviors, further 
illustrated in Fig. 7. To gain a more precise understanding of the spe disincentivizing speculative or marginal trades. These conditions natu
cifics of these P2P transactions, Table 6 is prepared for hours 8 and 14. rally constrain the volume of bilateral energy exchanges.
The information presented in this table includes the sequence of buyers It is important to emphasize that this result does not indicate a 
and sellers, the cleared P2P prices, and the quantities exchanged on the limitation of the proposed model but rather reflects the underlying 
P2P transactions. symmetry in system design. It means that implementing more diverse 

For more clarity, it is important to emphasize that the ACDA mech DER configurations (e.g., CHP units or heterogeneous ESS capacities) 
anism allows each buyer and seller to participate in multiple bilateral among prosumers, or even considering the combination of prosumers/ 
transactions within the same time period. This behavior results from consumers that overlaps the surplus generation with requirements, 
ACDA's iterative allocation rule: once a buyer matches with the lowest- could broaden the scope for asymmetric energy behavior and thus 
price available seller, the buyer's remaining unmet demand (if any) al enable a greater share of P2P trading. For instance, prosumers with 
lows further matches with the next seller in the merit order. A similar larger PV arrays (or containing additional generation units like CHP) 
process applies to sellers with remaining available energy. would benefit from surplus generation at times when others still face 

For instance, at Time 8, buyer P1 initially matches with seller P19 deficits, while prosumers with larger ESS capacities have this capability 
(due to its lower ask price than P6) until either P1's demand or P19's to shift more energy availability across periods in ways that differ from 
available surplus is fully allocated. If the buyer still has unmet demand smaller-storage peers.
after the first match, the mechanism continues to match it with the next Additionally, the total injected electricity into the upstream network 

Fig. 6. Determined bid prices of prosumers 4 and 5 on the test day.

13 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

Fig. 7. Electricity transactions in ACDA and retail markets.

decentralized P2P ACDA market, the performance of this framework has 
Table 6 been compared against two alternative transaction models: MMR-based 
Details of P2P exchanges at time periods 8 and 14. distributed transactions and retailer-based centralized transactions.

Time P2P P2P P2P Cleaing Price P2P Quantity The cumulative costs of distributed and centralized transactions are 
Buyer Seller ($/kWh) (kWh) illustrated in Fig. 10 and Fig. 11, respectively. In Fig. 10, the curve in

P6 0.5 0.012
P1 dicates a relatively smooth and controlled cost accumulation for each 

P19 0.46 0.205 prosumer, suggesting the adaptive nature of distributed transactions. In 
P3 P6 0.5 0.22

P8 0.54 0.28 contrast, Fig. 11 implies that the centralized approach offers limited 
P9 P6 0.49 0.05 responsiveness to market fluctuations, resulting in higher operational 

P2 0.544 0.26 costs.
P10 P8 0.539 0.038 To address the economic benefits and drawbacks, three key eco

8 P15 0.541 0.246 nomic implications including cost-saving and profit optimization, fair 
P4 0.51 0.1

P14
P17 0.51 0.135 and efficient pricing, and sensitivity to market volatility are considered 
P5 0.47 0.03 to prove the efficiency of the proposed framework.

P16 P11 0.46 0.08 To this end, a comparative analysis including total costs and reve
P17 0.46 0.005 nues arising from these three transaction mechanisms is provided in 
P19 0.47 0.005

P20 P17 0.48 0.005 Fig. 12. On this basis, the total cost of purchasing electricity for pro
P6 0.49 0.05 sumers in proposed MATD3-based decentralized ACDA, MMR-based 

P1 P20 0.50 0.234 distributed, and retailer-based centralized are estimated at $193.2, 
P4 P2 0.565 0.337 $185.45, and $198.6 while the overall revenue generated from selling 

P8 0.566 0.106 electricity is projected at $6.1, $5.46, and $3.42 respectively. These 
14 P5 P8 0.553 0.146

P16 0.554 0.3 values reveal that the P2P transactions executed via the MATD3-based 
P18 P15 0.5 0.204 ACDA mechanism incur approximately 4% higher costs compared to 

P12 0.534 0.224 the MMR-based transactions, which is an acceptable increase given the 
P19 P15 0.534 0.204 transition from a semi-centralized to a fully decentralized approach. But 

P16 0.533 0.09 in reverse, the revenue obtained from this approach is nearly 10% higher 
than that from MMR-based transactions. This result demonstrates that, 

(retail market) on the test day was 17.77 kW. Consequently, all pro despite the slightly higher costs, the proposed approach can yield 
sumers incurred costs of 187.1$ for purchasing from the retail market, improved revenue performance. On the other hand, the proposed 
6.1$ for P2P transactions (resulting in total costs of 193.2$), and earned MATD3-based ACDA transaction costs are faced with a 2.7% reduction 
approximately 5.5$ for selling electricity to the retail market. in electricity purchasing compared to retailer-based centralized trans

It should be emphasized that while the demand load scheduling, ESS actions, as well as leading to a 78.3% increase in revenue. Moreover, the 
charge/discharge operation, and bid/ask price determination involve lower revenue trend indicates that prosumers participating in distrib
stochastic learning under the proposed MATD3 algorithm, the subse uted and centralized schemes are less able to capitalize on transient 
quent P2P trading is resolved through the ACDA auction-based mecha market opportunities compared to those using the ACDA method. These 
nism, which is a deterministic process. For the given set of bid/ask improvements demonstrate the cost-saving and profit optimization of 
quantities and prices, the ACDA always produces a unique set of out the MADT3-based bid/ask price determination approach instead of 
comes. Therefore, statistical validations are not meaningful for reported relying on fixed or semi-centralized pricing mechanisms in real-world 
market economic results (e.g., costs and revenues). energy market scenarios.

Additionally, the proposed MATD3-based framework for deter
mining bid/ask prices in conjunction with the ACDA mechanism en

4.4. Economic implications analysis and validations hances market efficiency by dynamically adjusting prosumers' 
participation based on real-time conditions, ensuring that trading occurs 

To validate and assess the economic viability of the proposed at competitive prices. This procedure is realized by incorporating 
MATD3-based bid/ask price determination framework in the operational rules as an additional state, as discussed in Subsection 3.2.1.

14 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

Fig. 8. Cumulative P2P exchange costs of prosumers on the test day.

Fig. 9. Cumulative net clearing costs of prosumers on the test day.

Therefore, unlike retailer-based centralized transactions, which rely through its adaptive, decentralized design. Specifically, the dynamic 
on fixed tariff structures, and MMR-based distributed transactions, learning capabilities of MATD3 allow each prosumer agent to continu
which apply static average rates, the MATD3-based approach actively ously update its pricing decisions in real-time, based on local observa
optimizes bid/ask prices in response to individual prosumers' supply/ tions and evolving market conditions. This continuous adjustment 
demand conditions and real-time market dynamics. This leads to more process enables the system to dampen the impact of abrupt market 
competitive and balanced transactions, higher market liquidity, and changes and maintain competitive pricing even under volatile condi
minimized price distortions. Ultimately, these competitive constraints tions. By doing so, the proposed framework not only mitigates the 
embedded within the MATD3 learning framework reinforce fairness and adverse effects of volatility but also preserves the advantages of cost- 
efficiency, making the ACDA P2P market a viable alternative to con saving, profit optimization, and fair pricing.
ventional pricing models.

In the context of energy markets, market volatility poses a substan 5. Conclusion
tial challenge, manifesting as sudden fluctuations in energy prices or 
prosumers' demand/supply. These fluctuations can give rise to unstable This study has proposed a novel MADRL framework for the man
bid/ask prices and distort market outcomes. Conventional centralized agement of smart prosumers in decentralized P2P energy markets. The 
pricing methodologies, predicated on retailer-based systems, or static primary contributions of this study are as follows: (1) The imple
pricing techniques, such as MMR-based methods, are particularly sus mentation of the MATD3 algorithm with a DTDE strategy, which allows 
ceptible to such price fluctuations. This often gives rise to pricing dis for fully independent prosumer operation. (2) The dynamic determina
tortions and a concomitant diminution in economic efficiency. tion of demand load and energy storage operation. The proposed 

The proposed MATD3-based framework addresses this drawback framework addresses the challenges of independent operation, privacy 

15 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

Fig. 10. Cumulative costs of prosumers based on MMR transactions.

Fig. 11. Cumulative costs of prosumers based on centralized transactions.

Fig. 12. Costs/revenues comparison between ACDA, MMR, and centralized transactions.

16 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A p p li e d  E n e r g y  412 (2026) 127650 

preservation, scalability, and dynamic pricing in prosumer-centric en with varying trading mechanisms. In this context, smart prosumer 
ergy management systems. The findings demonstrate that the proposed agents must identify the optimal market to engage with, considering the 
trading approach exhibits satisfactory adaptability with an incremental pricing structures available.
cost of approximately 4% compared to the distributed transactions and a 
savings cost of 2.7% compared to centralized transactions. Furthermore, CRediT authorship contribution statement
the efficacy of the proposed framework is evidenced by its ability to 
foster competition in P2P transactions, resulting in a 10% and 78.3% Behzad Motallebi Azar: Writing – review & editing, Writing – 
increase in revenue compared to distributed and centralized trading original draft, Visualization, Validation, Software, Resources, Method
mechanisms, respectively. ology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. 

Further work could examine the integration of additional factors, Rasool Kazemzadeh: Writing – review & editing, Validation, Supervi
such as network constraints, heterogeneous DER and equipment con sion, Project administration, Investigation, Conceptualization. Morteza 
figurations, renewable energy forecasting, uncertainty arising from Zare Oskouei: Writing – review & editing, Validation, Supervision, 
historical datasets, cyber-physical security, and blockchain-based en Project administration, Investigation, Conceptualization. Behnam 
ergy trading, with a view to enhancing the framework's capabilities and Mohammadi-Ivatloo: Writing – review & editing, Validation, Super
applicability in real-world scenarios. Evaluating the influence of such vision, Project administration, Investigation, Formal analysis, 
factors on market liquidity, trading frequency, and system-level per Conceptualization.
formance represents a promising direction for future studies. Investi
gating strategic or tentative quotation behaviors by prosumers under Declaration of competing interest
stochastic and partially informed P2P trading environments, and 
assessing their potential impact on price dynamics and market stability, The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
is another future direction. Moreover, it may be feasible for P2P market interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
participants to select their preferred market from a range of P2P markets the work reported in this paper.

Appendix A. AppendixA

The following table contains all symbols utilized in the text of the paper

Nomenclatureٔ

Symbol Definition
p Index of prosumer
t Index of time step (hourly)
λ Index of price
π Index of policy
s Index of state
a Index of action
r Index of reward
μπ Index of actor network
Qφ Index of critic network
Gp,t PV generation of prosumer p at time t
Dp,t Scheduled demand of prosumer p at time t
PPV

t Generation capacity of each PV panel
EESS

p,t ESS charge level of prosumer p at time t
EESS

Cap Capacity of prosumers' ESSs
EESS

Min,EESS
Max Min/Max allowable charge state of ESSs

CESS
p,t ,GESS

p,t ESS Charge/discharge power of prosumer p at time t
Pch/dch

Max Maximum allowable charge/discharge power of ESS
ENet

p,t Net electricity load
Edev

t Prosumers demand/supply deviation at time t
Econ

t ,Egen
t Aggregated bid/ask quantities

ℜp Cumulative reward function of prosumer p
γt Discount factor at time t
sD,ESS
p,t State of prosumer p at time t for demand and ESS scheduling

PCon
p,t Consumption data of prosumer p

EPV
p,t PV generation data of prosumer p

ℝESS
p,t Operational rules for ESS operation of prosumer p at time t

ℂSOC
p,t ESS charge level condition of prosumer p at time t-1

aD,ESS
p,t Action of prosumer p at time t for demand and ESS scheduling

Dmax Maximum allowable demand load
λNet

t Net electricity price
Ech,dch

p,t ESS charge/discharge power obtained by TD3 agent
rD,ESS
p,t Reward function of prosumer p at time t for demand and ESS scheduling

(continued on next page)

17 



B.M. Azar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                            A  p  p  li e  d   E  n e  r g  y  412 (2026) 127650 

(continued )

rDeg
p,t Penalty function for ESS degradation

sBid,Ask
p,t State of prosumer p at time t for bid/ask price determination

ℝprice
p,t Operational rules for bid/ask price determination of prosumer p at time t

aBid,Ask
p,t Action of prosumer p at time t for bid/ask price determination

PrBid,Ask Bid/ask price obtained by TD3 agent
p,t

Data availability [13] Ye Y, Tang Y, Wang H, Zhang X-P, Strbac G. A scalable privacy-preserving multi- 
agent deep reinforcement learning approach for large-scale peer-to-peer 
Transactive energy trading. IEEE Trans Smart Grid 2021;12(6):5185–200. https:// 

No data was used for the research described in the article. doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2021.3103917.
[14] Ma R, Yi Z, Xiang Y, Shi D, Xu C, Wu H. A Blockchain-enabled demand 

References management and control framework driven by deep reinforcement learning. IEEE 
Trans Ind Electron 2023;70(1):430–40. https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
TIE.2022.3146631.

[1] Wang T, O'Neill D, Kamath H. Dynamic control and optimization of distributed [15] Xiao H, Pu X, Pei W, Ma L. Peer-to-peer energy transactions for prosumers based on 
energy resources in a microgrid. IEEE Trans Smart Grid 2015;6(6):2884–94. improved deep deterministic policy gradient algorithm. IEEE Trans Smart Grid 
https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2015.2430286. 2024;1:5910–22. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2024.3419122.

[2] Khorasany M, Najafi-Ghalelou A, Razzaghi R. A framework for joint scheduling and [16] May R, Huang P. A multi-agent reinforcement learning approach for investigating 
power trading of prosumers in Transactive markets. IEEE Trans Sustain Energy and optimising peer-to-peer prosumer energy markets. Appl Energy 2023;334: 
2021;12(2):955–65. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSTE.2020.3026611. 120705. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2023.120705.

[3] Zamani R, Parsa Moghaddam M, Haghifam M-R. Evaluating the impact of [17] Sanayha M, Vateekul P. Model-based approach on multi-agent deep reinforcement 
connectivity on Transactive energy in smart grid. IEEE Trans Smart Grid 2022;13 learning with multiple clusters for peer-to-peer energy trading. IEEE Access 2022; 
(3):2491–4. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2021.3136776. 10:127882–93. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3224460.

[4] Tushar W, et al. Peer-to-peer energy systems for connected communities: a review [18] Chen T, Bu S, Liu X, Kang J, Yu FR, Han Z. Peer-to-peer energy trading and energy 
of recent advances and emerging challenges. Appl Energy 2021;282:116131. conversion in interconnected multi-energy microgrids using multi-agent deep 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.116131. reinforcement learning. IEEE Trans Smart Grid 2022;13(1):715–27. https://doi. 

[5] Zhou Y, Lund PD. Peer-to-peer energy sharing and trading of renewable energy in org/10.1109/TSG.2021.3124465.
smart communities – trading pricing models, decision-making and agent-based [19] Zheng J, Liang Z-T, Li Y, Li Z, Wu Q-H. Multi-agent reinforcement learning with 
collaboration. Renew Energy 2023;207:177–93. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. privacy preservation for continuous double auction-based P2P energy trading. IEEE 
renene.2023.02.125. Trans Industr Inform 2024;20(4):6582–90. https://doi.org/10.1109/ 

[6] Crespo-Vazquez JL, AlSkaif T, Gonzalez-Rueda AM, Gibescu M. A community- TII.2023.3348823.
based energy market design using decentralized decision-making under [20] Lonza A. Reinforcement learning algorithms with Python: Learn, understand, and 
uncertainty. IEEE Trans Smart Grid 2021;12(2):1782–93. https://doi.org/ develop smart algorithms for addressing AI challenges. Packt Publishing Ltd 2019.
10.1109/TSG.2020.3036915. [21] Fujimoto S, van Hoof H, Meger D. Addressing function approximation error in 

[7] Ying C, Zou Y, Xu Y. Decentralized energy management of a hybrid building cluster actor-critic methods. 2018.
via peer-to-peer transactive energy trading. Appl Energy 2024;372:123803. [22] Nguyen TT, Nguyen ND, Nahavandi S. Deep reinforcement learning for multiagent 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.123803. systems: a review of challenges, solutions, and applications. IEEE Trans Cybern 

[8] Qiu D, Wang J, Dong Z, Wang Y, Strbac G. Mean-field multi-agent reinforcement 2020;50(9):3826–39. https://doi.org/10.1109/TCYB.2020.2977374.
learning for peer-to-peer multi-energy trading. IEEE Trans Power Syst 2023;38(5): [23] S. Ong and N. Clark, “Commercial and residential hourly load profiles for all TMY3 
4853–66. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2022.3217922. locations in the United States,” National Renewable Energy Laboratory Available: 

[9] Azar BM, Mohammadian-Alirezachaei H, Kazemzadeh R. Transactive Energy and https://data.openei.org/submissions/153.
Peer-to-Peer Trading Applications in Energy Systems: An Overview. 2023. [24] C. Deline, K. Perry, M. Deceglie, M. Muller, W. Sekulic, and D. Jordan, 
p. 47–75. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-35233-1_3. “Photovoltaic data acquisition (PVDAQ) public datasets,” NREL. Available: https 

[10] Ye Y, Papadaskalopoulos D, Yuan Q, Tang Y, Strbac G. Multi-agent deep ://data.openei.org/submissions/4568.
reinforcement learning for coordinated energy trading and flexibility services [25] M. Kalia, “California independent system operator (CAISO) day-ahead electricity 
provision in local electricity markets. IEEE Trans Smart Grid 2023;14(2):1541–54. prices dataset,” CAISO. Available: https://github.com/manukalia/CA_Electricty_Pr 
https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2022.3149266. ice_Prediction_Neural_Net.

[11] Qiu D, Ye Y, Papadaskalopoulos D, Strbac G. Scalable coordinated management of [26] Paszke A, et al. PyTorch: An imperative style, High-Performance Deep Learning 
peer-to-peer energy trading: a multi-cluster deep reinforcement learning approach. Library. 2019.
Appl Energy 2021;292:116940. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.116940.

[12] Samende C, Cao J, Fan Z. Multi-agent deep deterministic policy gradient algorithm 
for peer-to-peer energy trading considering distribution network constraints. Appl 
Energy 2022;317:119123. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2022.119123.

18